[Start1]
Fifty-ninth session


	*	A/59/150.
Item 110 of the provisional agenda*
Programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005



		Information and Communications Technology Strategy


		Report of the Secretary-General



	Summary	In line with General Assembly resolution 58/270 of 23 December 2003, paragraph 46, the present report provides information on the progress in implementing the information and communications technology strategy and on the impact of investments in information and communications technology on the business processes of the Organization.

Contents
ParagraphsPageI. 	Introduction	1–33II. 	Infrastructure	4–113III. 	Security	12–165IV. 	Connectivity	176V. 	Capacity-building	187VI. 	Governance	19–207VII. 	Inter-agency ICT activities	218VIII. 	Impact of investments in ICT	22–258IX. 	Conclusions and recommendations	26–279	Annex		Updated status of implementation and expected benefits of major ICT projects	10

	I.	Introduction


1.	It will be recalled that the Secretary-General submitted to the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session his report entitled “Information and communication technology strategy” (A/57/620). The report outlined the approach adopted in targeting investments in information and communication technologies (ICT). The report further elaborated on the fact that the investments would be focused on delivering tangible returns in three areas, considered to be representative of core activities of the Organization: (a) the sharing and dissemination of the Organization’s institutional knowledge capital, (b) administrative and management processes and (c) the servicing of the United Nations organs and governing bodies. In order to deliver value-added services in these three areas, four elements were identified as “building blocks”: (a) a robust infrastructure at Headquarters and at offices away from Headquarters, (b) security policies and provisions to ensure business continuity, (c) reliable connectivity with the field and (d) the building and efficient utilization of a skilled human resources base with focused skills in key technologies and management practices.
2.	In its resolution 57/304 of 15 April 2003, the General Assembly had taken note of the report contained in document A/57/620 and requested the Secretary-General, inter alia, to provide further information and to make proposals on the further strengthening of governance and central leadership arrangements, including a mechanism to assess the results achieved and apply the lessons learned, to be considered in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005. The report on the implementation of Assembly resolution 57/304 (A/58/377) was submitted to the Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. Upon review of that report, the Assembly, in its resolution 58/272 (I) of 23 December 2003, had, inter alia, welcomed the steps being taken to address requests contained in resolution 57/304, and reiterated the need to indicate the return on investment for planned and proposed major projects in terms that were as quantitative as possible. Furthermore, in its resolution 58/270 of 23 December 2003, paragraph 46, the General Assembly requested the Secretary-General to submit a progress report to the Assembly at its fifty-ninth session on the impact of investments in information and communications technology. 
3.	The present report addresses the above requests of the General Assembly. It summarizes an outcome of the work done during the current year on implementation of initiatives related to the building blocks and on the strengthening of the governance aspects of the information and communications technology strategy. It also provides information on the impact of the ICT networks on the operations of the United Nations.


	II.	Infrastructure


4.	The financial constraints prevailing during the biennium 2002-2003 owing to the budgetary reductions imposed by General Assembly resolution 56/253 of 
24 December 2001 resulted in the postponement to the present biennium of several critical initiatives required to maintain and enhance the computing and communications infrastructure required for increased usage of ICT services. During the current year, the Secretariat has been significantly upgrading its enterprise server and storage area network infrastructures to enable adequate and reliable performance in order to achieve the service availability goals of 95 per cent, set as an expected accomplishment in the programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005. This included implementation of the major activities detailed in paragraphs 5-11 below.
5.	Upgrade of the local area network (LAN) at United Nations Headquarters. This project augments the data transmission capacity to each desktop computer from 10 megabits per second (MBPS) to 100 MBPS, thereby adding performance and reliability to the functioning of the network. As a result of that capacity upgrade, new multimedia applications, such as desktop videoconferencing, will be possible for use by client offices. The availability of desktop videoconferencing has the potential to greatly facilitate real-time information exchange at much lower cost, as compared with the traditional videoconferencing sessions. From a functionality perspective, the fact that desktop videoconferencing allows users to share documents, files and audio-visual materials stored in their computers during videoconference sessions, will make business processes simpler and faster. 
6.	Several organization units of the Secretariat have already requested this facility as a means of streamlining their work flow and augmenting efficiency. As an example, the Department for General Assembly and Conference Management will use this facility for interaction with author offices in the preparation of official documents. The Programme Planning and Budget Division will utilize the desktop videoconferencing as a collaboration tool with which to interact with budget units at offices away from Headquarters, in particular during the budget formulation process.
7.	As of July 2004, the LAN capacity has been upgraded on 10 floors of the Secretariat building. The project’s completion is foreseen by the first quarter of the year 2005.
8.	Installation of WiFi public hotspots. This project involves the installation of a campus-wide wireless visitor network. It is intended to support delegations, staff, non-governmental organizations and other partners and vendors. Through WiFi, users of laptop computers and other portable devices can connect to the Internet from any place within the area of coverage. Of particular importance to the United Nations delegations is the capability to access the Official Document System of the United Nations and any other repositories of information directly at those times when they are participating in official meetings.
9.	As of July 2004, WiFi has been operational in the following areas: Office of the President of the General Assembly, Conference Rooms 5, 6 and 7, General Assembly Building, second floor (Indonesian Lounge), Office of the President of the Security Council, Security Council Consultation Room, Security Council Waiting Room, Security Council Lounge, Delegates’ Lounge, Conference Building basement corridor, South Annex Building SAB-32 (Department for General Assembly and Conference Management Interpreters Lounge), First Basement neck area, Viennese Café, Secretariat Building lobby, Secretariat Building, third floor (Press bullpen area), and the FF Building. Installation of WiFi is currently in progress in the General Assembly Hall, the Security Council Chamber, the Trusteeship Council Chamber, the Economic and Social Council Chamber, and Conference Rooms 1, 2, 3 and 4.
10.	Free access to Official Document System of the United Nations (ODS). The infrastructure to support the implementation of public access to ODS has been purchased and installed. Servers, storage devices, load balancing equipment and software required to ensure adequate performance of the system, once ODS is made available to the general public, are currently being tested. Detailed information on the progress made on this project and its operational advantages will be provided to the General Assembly in a special report in response to the Assembly’s request as contained in paragraph 56 of its resolution 58/270. That report will be annexed to the first budget performance report for the biennium 2004-2005.
11.	Joint Operations of the Communications and Information Technology Service of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Information Technology Services Division of the Office of Central Support Services. The operations of the Communications and Information Technology Service and the Information Technology Services Division are being consolidated to ensure a unified and coordinated approach towards installing technological infrastructure and delivering support services for the Organization as a whole. The joint operations will leverage the investments made in infrastructure and will enable a reduction in overall support costs. In the context of these collaborative arrangements, effective 
1 January 2004, the Department of Peacekeeping Operations has begun providing telecommunication services to the United Nations Office at Nairobi, the Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), the Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) and the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994 and over satellite links to Brindisi. As a result, costs of voice services have been significantly reduced by utilizing service contracts established with local carriers at very favourable rates. Internet services are being provided either through local Internet service providers or through Headquarters, taking advantage of the time difference. At a time when local usage in New York is low, the above offices are able to utilize the available capacity. Also, using the “follow-the-sun approach”, support staff in Brindisi can monitor server operations in New York and vice versa, thus improving the reliability of the services.


	III.	Security


12.	Operationally, the Organization has been coping well with the significant challenges to the security of its network that it is constantly facing. Hacking, “denial of service”, viruses, spam (unsolicited mail) and “spyware” (software that spies on users’ computer activity) are ever-growing menaces to the safe and reliable operation of the ICT network. For example, at Headquarters, almost 99 per cent of received e-mail is either spam or virus-related, and only 1 per cent of the received email is legitimate. A number of anti-spam and anti-virus measures are being implemented in a constant battle to safeguard the Organization’s network. In July 2004 alone, 33,276 potential virus infections were successfully contained, most notably the “Mydoom.O”, which impacted even the largest Internet search engines like Google and Yahoo. Similarly, the anti-spyware actions in July 2004 eliminated 19,920 spyware pests. On average, about 500 attempts to hack the Secretariat servers are foiled every month. The security measures implemented in the Secretariat, including the multilayered intrusion detection and prevention mechanisms, are consistent with those in use by Fortune 500 companies, banks and government institutions. 
13.	The above has become possible due to significant progress made in the implementation of the security building block during the past year. In this context, the Secretariat made significant progress in the development of security regulations. A Secretary-General’s bulletin on “Use of ICT resources and data” is expected to be promulgated in the third quarter of 2004. A draft bulletin on ICT security, business continuity and emergency preparedness policy, which is under preparation, will be certified for compliance with the industry security standards in the first quarter of the year 2005, as a step required for its adoption and promulgation. These two issuances are the cornerstones in providing a robust policy framework. They will lay the foundation for ensuring the reliability of the ICT services within the Secretariat. 
14.	The Organization has formally adopted the industry standard performance benchmark for security known as ISO-17799. Secretariat-wide planning activities are well under way to bring all offices of the Secretariat into compliance with the standard and to obtain relevant certification. The ISO-17799 certification requires an established policy on communications security and well-documented procedures. Under the direction of the Information and Communications Technology Board and in collaboration with the Office of Human Resources Management, the Office of Legal Affairs, the Office of Internal Oversight Services and offices away from Headquarters, an ICT manual, which will address those issues, is under preparation. The Manual will constitute a compendium of policies, standards, procedures and contain plans for promoting best practices for ICT management and service delivery, including security. The manual is expected to be completed and become the operational guide by the first quarter of the year 2005.
15.	The Organization has also embarked on a concerted Secretariat-wide campaign to assess and subsequently mitigate security risks. By the end of the year 2004, the ICT security risk assessments will be completed at Headquarters and all offices away from Headquarters, representing an important milestone for managing a security programme. The risk assessment campaign demonstrates the global collaboration in place to collectively address risk management as an organization-wide business process for detecting, tracking and preventing security exposures. Since the inception of the risk assessment initiative, many exposures to risk have been mitigated.
16.	In summary, a comprehensive programme of work dedicated to ICT security is well under way. Its results are based on measurable performance indicators which will be tested and verified by independent external expertise. 


	IV.	Connectivity


17.	The Communications and Information Technology Service of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Information Technology Services Division have jointly upgraded the connectivity to and from all the offices away from Headquarters that utilize satellite links. These cover the operations of the United Nations Office at Nairobi, ECA, ESCWA, the International Tribunal for Rwanda and the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991. In addition to the cost savings related to reduced voice-services rates mentioned above, this joint undertaking will also provide those offices with the capacity required for effective utilization of centrally deployed software applications such as the Electronic Performance Appraisal System (e-PAS) and iSeek (the new global Secretariat Intranet). Furthermore, it will allow for the facilitation of the process of consolidation and the integration of Integrated Management Information System (IMIS) operations in real time, the latter having the potential to effect significant cost savings. 


	V.	Capacity-building


18.	One of the most important accomplishments achieved during the last few months is the review process of initiatives for ICT development instituted by the Project Review Committee. The initiatives/proposals for ICT development are now standardized through preparation of the High-level Business Cases. The purpose of the High-level Business Cases is to make any significant ICT initiative business-sound and to facilitate the projection of return on investment by considering all costs, risks and benefits expected from the project. The uniform application of this methodology will allow the Secretariat to provide aggregate Organization-wide estimates on return on investments. It will also enhance the level of competence applied to the development and management of the ICT projects throughout the Secretariat. To support this process and assist departments and offices away from Headquarters in preparing their presentations to the Committee, the Information Technology Services Division has been conducting a series of seminars on the development of the High-level Business Cases. So far, about 300 staff members at Headquarters, the United Nations Office at Geneva, the United Nations Office at Vienna and the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia have already attended the seminars on that subject.


	VI.	Governance


19.	By promulgating the Secretary-General’s bulletin entitled “Information and Communications Technology Board” (ST/SGB/2003/17), the Secretary-General established a sound framework for institutionalizing governance of the ICT processes. The Project Review Committee, as a subsidiary body of the Information and Communications Technology Board, plays a crucial role in applying uniformly the standards established by the Board for application of ICT, reviews the ICT initiatives within the Organization and submits recommendations to the Board regarding whether those initiatives should be accepted and implemented. The jurisdiction of the Project Review Committee is Secretariat-wide, irrespective of the sources of the funding of such proposals. The Project Review Committee is chaired by the Director of the Information Technology Services Division and comprises representatives from departments at Headquarters and offices away from Headquarters. 
20.	For each ICT initiative, a High-level Business Case is prepared and reviewed and endorsed by the Project Review Committee prior to the commencement of the activity. The amount of information required for each Business Case is proportional to the scope of the related ICT initiative and is set forth by guidelines in the ICT standard procedure. The Business Cases endorsed by the Committee will be used by the Secretariat as official documents for both internal management and support for Secretariat interaction with the governing bodies. From this perspective, it is foreseen that departments and offices will be expected to submit the approved Business Cases for the ICT initiatives in support of their budget proposals and that these will serve as a basis for determining the ICT requirements. An integral element in the Business Cases review process is the utilization of the capacity of the e-Assets system, a Secretariat-wide inventory of all ICT systems and initiatives. Prior to the undertaking of any ICT initiative, the e-Assets database will be checked to ascertain whether similar systems may already exist anywhere in the Secretariat, or whether similar initiatives have been launched elsewhere. This review process has already proved to be very effective in forestalling duplicate efforts, and consolidating and eliminating duplicative and overlapping ICT systems throughout the Secretariat.


	VII.	Inter-agency ICT activities


21.	On behalf of the Organization and in coordination with the secretariat of the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for Coordination (CEB), the Information Technology Services Division participated as lead agency in several ICT initiatives launched within the United Nations system. For example, the United Nations system Extranet provides a platform for enhanced information-sharing among the United Nations system organizations. It allows exchanges between organizations of information previously available only on Intranets and thus restricted. So far, most of the CEB member organizations have been connected to this dynamic information database. Work on further expansion and improved management of the content of the Extranet is under way. Extensive work has also been undertaken to establish an inter-agency search engine across the public web sites of all United Nations system organizations. The search engine, which will be based on the Google service, will provide a valuable tool for retrieving information from all web sites throughout the United Nations system, including working towards consistent processes that will help to enable system-wide management techniques. The search engine is expected to be in place shortly. Furthermore, in coordination with the ICT Task Force of CEB and the CEB secretariat, the Information Technology Services Division is collaborating with other organizations of the United Nations system in the development of a comprehensive ICT strategy for the United Nations system, in line with General Assembly resolution 57/295 of 
20 December 2002. The progress in that area will be reported to the Assembly as appropriate.


	VIII.	Impact of investments in ICT


22.	During the year 2004, efforts and resources have been devoted to further building the ICT infrastructure, implementing its security and upgrading its capacity, as part of the implementation of the ICT strategy. Although aggregate figures on the positive return of these investments cannot yet be produced, the methodology and mechanisms in place will allow the quantification of the return on investment at an individual project level.
23.	Notwithstanding the absence of quantifiable returns, significant benefits can already be identified. Worth mentioning are, inter alia, the streamlining of processes as a result of introducing technology in the operations of the Headquarters Committee on Contracts. Another example is the universal adoption of e-PAS. E-PAS is a largely paper-less system that greatly facilitates the monitoring of compliance at several work-unit levels. It can now provide valuable tools for analysing performance at an aggregate level. Furthermore, the implementation of iSeek, the new global Secretariat Intranet, enables all users to easily access information in electronic format, thereby shortening the time previously required to perform several clerical and administrative functions. 
24.	The introduction of significant levels of automation in most processes that have, until now, been largely manual and labour-intensive has allowed the Secretariat to cope effectively with the increased workload emanating from the constantly increasing number of mandates adopted by the General Assembly and other Charter organs, and the increased number of meetings and of various operations, in particular in the peacekeeping area.
25.	The updated status of implementation of the major ICT projects discussed in the report of the Secretary-General of 20 November 2002 (A/57/620), along with the estimated return on those investments at the project level, is reported in the annex to this report. 


	IX.	Conclusions and recommendations


26.	The experience of the last few years has clearly demonstrated a high level of dependency of the Organization on the ICT infrastructures and services in its daily operations. ICT structures and services are now treated as essential utilities. Further progress has been made since the issuance of the previous report on the strengthening of the ICT operations and increasing their effectiveness through further standardization and unification of infrastructures and ICT processes. This work will continue in the context of the ICT strategy elaborated by the Secretary-General.
27.	The General Assembly may wish to take note of this report.


Annex

		Updated status of implementation and expected benefits of major ICT projects


RespaProjectObjectiveExpected benefitsProgress — milestonesType of return DESAIntegrated Monitoring and Documentation Information System (IMDIS)In partnership with the Office of Programme Planning, Budget and Accounts and the Office of Internal Oversight Services, provide an integrated online environment for end-to-end execution of the programme management process.Support to a United Nations management culture of accountability and administrative efficiency.Delivery of v.3.0 pilot August 2004; completion of pilot evaluation March 2005; completion of production system design July 2005.DDESAUnited Nations Commodity Trade Database (COMTRADE)Migrate one of the largest United Nations databases from mainframe to client server environment with Internet access.Subscribers will have direct access to the database and will be able to download data or research data using just a Web browser.Currently more than 750 million commodity trade transactions are available for viewing and downloading. Subscriber access has been available since June 2003. Currently, UNSD is working on an OECD implementation of the database and on a processing module.SI, PSDGACMe-Conveyer: Resource Allocation and Scheduling SystemTransfer the electronic version of the documents, with all reference material attached, between all services involved in the document processing.Streamlining documents work flow in the department; reducing overall time and cost for documents production; improving access to working and reference documents.The system’s design phase has been completed. e-Conveyer has been interfaced with eDrits (electronic documents registration and information tracking system). Services of DGACM involved in document processing have been using the e-Conveyer since January 2004 (pilot stage). It is expected to reach full-scale production stage by the end of 2004.PS, SI, DDGACMElectronic Meeting Board Display information on meetings in real time using big plasma screens as the replacement for the boards with the manual sign plates.Providing up-to-date information for meetings participants. Cost savings by eliminating manual labour of posting meetings signs.Seven plasma screens (62?) were acquired in January 2004. The required outputs for plasma screens have been designed using eMeets database and the screens were operational in August 2004.SI, PSDGACMJournal of the United Nations with hyperlinks to ODS documentsProvide Member States and the participants of United Nations meetings with comprehensive information about daily events at UNHQ, including meetings agenda and Web links to relevant documents stored in ODS.Improving services for the Member States, United Nations organs and delegations; faster access to reference documentation.The Journal of the United Nations is posted on United Nations Internet in PDF format with active links to ODS documents. The Journal archive will be created by the end of 2004 and will be available on Internet as well.PS, SIDGACM Interpreters Assignment Programme (APG)Automate the assignment of interpreters to scheduled United Nations meetings; facilitate management and statistical reporting for the interpretation services.Optimization of interpretation resources by automating planning and assignment tasks; cost savings due to precise calculation of the required number of freelance interpreters; savings in administrative costs for handling daily and weekly assignments; timely and precise statistical and management reports.The APG project was successfully implemented for UNHQ, UNOV, UNOG and UNON. It is used for remote United Nations conference as well. By the end of 2004, the APG system will be interfaced with eMeets (to share meetings-related data). PSITSDICT Assets (Inventory) SystemMake available on the United Nations Secretariat Intranet an online inventory of ICT assets, including: software applications, hardware, communications equipment, current projects and software licence agreements.The System will enable all offices connected to the Intranet to have access to current information on ICT assets located throughout the system worldwide. This could potentially generate significant savings as a result of sharing facilities already available elsewhere.New version has been in production since August 2003.L, DITSD
e-HCCElectronic Headquarters Committee on Contracts.The System provides automation to the processing of cases by the Headquarters Committee on Contracts. The System covers the automation of very paper-intensive processes and will enable reporting capabilities that are currently not available.The initial phases have been tested and are going into production in August 2004. Additional phases, including reporting, are in progress.PSITSDElectronic Performance Appraisal System (ePAS)Automate the workflow involved in the preparation and disposition of PAS reports.Streamlining of paper-intensive processes and facilitation of the preparation of management reports using the underlying database.As of April 2004, e-PAS had been rolled out to all United Nations offices, including missions.PSITSDSoftware-supported drafting of resolutionsProvide automation and workflow system to the process of drafting resolutions.Enabling of a more accurate and efficient processes in the drafting of resolutions and related documentation during informal deliberations.To be undertaken within 2004-2005 resources.PSITSDExtranets for regional groupsProvide a secure Internet-based facility through which regional groups can deliberate remotely.Savings can be realized, in terms of both time devoted by the participants and the resources required to support meetings. Links to documents residing in the ODS can further streamline the deliberations and improve output.To be undertaken within 2004-2005 resources.PSITSDPersonal digital assistant (PDA) integrationEnable the use of mobile/portable computing devices (namely, Palm, iPAQ) to obtain United Nations-relevant information.Delegations will be able to access meeting-related information through mobile/portable devices, regardless of location.To be undertaken within 2004-2005 resources.SIDPAUnited Nations Tasking, Reporting and Information System (UNTRIS)Enhance Department of Political Affairs capacity for information-gathering, monitoring and analysis of conflict prevention activities.This global mapping and reporting system will provide more precise and up-to-date information to managers and desk officers.The first phase of the project was tested and failed to meet the substantive and technical requirements of the Department. The system was difficult to update and extend, as it was not geographical information systems (GIS) standards-compliant and therefore could not utilize external geographical data (for example, from other United Nations departments and organizations). It would have been very resource-intensive to maintain (in terms of both financing and personnel). In particular, updating of outdated country profile and map data had to be carried out manually and the news collection module could not be tied into any real-time news wire services. In addition, no analysis capability existed. No further development is planned.SI, DDPAConversion of the Electoral Assistance Division filing systemEnable the electronic and retrieval of documents in PDF format.Faster access to more accurate information.Project is on hold owing to lack of funding.SIDPACommon (Department of Political Affairs/Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs) geographical information system (GIS) of the Occupied Palestinian TerritoryShare up-to-date and precise maps and standardized location names.Generate more precise information and use common nomenclature.Project is on hold owing to lack of funding and staff resources.SIDPIMultimedia Electronic Production SystemIntroduction of current technology in the newsroom environment.The system will enable a high degree of automation in new production. Efficiency, cost control and safe storage are the main benefits.A 21-week implementation timetable was formalized in March 2004. In March and April, experts came to UNHQ to finalize the configurations for the radio and photo modules respectively. The photo module has been fully operational since June, as scheduled, and final sign-off could be as early as September 2004. A small pilot radio module has been operational since June 2004. The majority of the production and engineering staff have been trained, and many are giving their feedback on the radio module, while the existing system is still maintained. Technical issues are being addressed to ensure the full stability of the radio module; staff have requested modifications to the “out-of-the-box” application, on which work is under way. In view of the approaching General Assembly session, final modification of the radio module, its sign-off, and the full stress test on the entire multimedia electronic news production system will be delayed owing to resource constraints.SI, PSDPIUNBISnetUpgrade the Dag Hammarskjöld Library Integrated Library Management System (ILMS) Horizon software and replace the cataloguing system.Through the use of Unicode-compliant software, multilingual script can be supported and be linked to the ODS.In the third quarter of 2003, the Library upgraded its ILMS software as well as the majority of its PCs to Windows 2000. As a result of these upgrades, a new Web interface to UNBISnet was developed and launched in June 2004; ILMS is now Unicode-compliant. In addition, in 2003, all records for United Nations documentation in UNBISnet were linked to the ODS full text for available languages.SIITSDIMIS consolidation of databasesRe-engineer the database architecture and consolidation mechanisms.Streamlined processing of inter-office financial transactions, transfer of staff and others. Elimination of duplication of data-entry tasks. Enhanced reporting capability.Functional workshops were completed during 2003. Technical analysis of available solutions has commenced and is due for completion by the end of the third quarter of 2004. These options will be presented to the Department of Management during the fourth quarter of 2004, and an implementation plan and budget will be developed once the preferred option has been selected.PS, L, DITSDIMIS in the fieldImplement IMIS in peacekeeping missions.Connection of peacekeeping sites to the IMIS system. Circumvention of the need to re-enter personnel data at Headquarters by allowing the operation of IMIS directly from the field.Sixteen missions have been connected to operate the system remotely for HR functions. A joint DPKO/DM Gap Analysis has been completed; and based on its results, the IMIS Steering Committee has approved the deployment of IMIS in the peacekeeping missions. Detailed implementation plans are being drawn up.PS, LITSDIMIS on the WebRe-engineer the IMIS user interface to enable its operation on the Web and to streamline the most heavily used functions.Migration to the Web and the reengineering will greatly facilitate the deployment in the field of all its functionality. It will also bring its technology infrastructure up to current industry standards, making it more suitable for implementation by other organizations.IMIS HR functionality was deployed in production at UNHQ in November 2003. The conversion of the rest of IMIS (finance, reference tables, administration) is expected to be completed at the end of 2004.PS, LITSDIMIS reporting on the WebReplace Paradox as the front-end reporting tool for IMIS.Reports will be able to be delivered on the Web and provide greater flexibility to users of the system.In progress. Software selection completed in January 2004. Pilot project to be completed June 2004, with implementation in UNHQ by end-2004. The schedule for implementation in Offices Away from Headquarters (OAHs) is to be determined.L, SIITSDIMIS 24x7 operationsAllow concurrent online and batch mode processing.Increased availability of the system to online users, including those in remote time zones.Initial work seeks to maximize use of existing system resources without fully re-engineering overnight/online processing. To date, concurrent processing for Payroll phases 2 and 3 are deployed in production, allowing the reduction of processing time considerably. “Off-line” trial payroll runs also have been implemented, reducing the requirement for use of system resources overnight. The work to separate processing of Payroll regular accounting from retro-accounting is in progress and expected to be completed by end of 2004. Cumulatively, these changes result in increased availability of the system to online users, especially in missions. LOMIOSKey Items Management Reporting SystemReporting of key management performance indicators.Using data that resides in IMIS and other enterprise-wide systems, the system provides management-level information on performance (or divergence) against established goals.Institutionalization of usage of system and technical support, and integration of indicators into next generation of reporting systems in progress.  DOCHAIntranet/ Portal/Virtual Library throughout the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian AffairsProvide easy access to tools that increase efficiency in the Office’s work; promote and facilitate information-sharing among staff in 25 different offices around the world.Increased efficiency; avoidance of duplication of work; staff better informed of the latest developments.Document repository and web interface ready December 2003; Prototype Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs Intranet (based on redesigned “OCHA Online”), including integration of document repository, ready April 2004. Partial Intranet deployed at Headquarters (New York and Geneva) and field offices, August 2004; full deployment by end-2004. Integration with United Nations Intranet, 2005.PS, DOHRMGalaxy-R2Web site to assist staff members in separation (administration and benefits due by the Organization) and web tool that enables human resources practitioners, staff members and external applicants to set match criteria for United Nations advertised posts and online inventory of pre-approved United Nations consultants and individual contractors.Assistance to staff members in respect of a correct and timely administrative separation, as well as the calculation of the benefits due by the Organization; review of all vacancies on the Internet and provision of information to the “client” when a vacancy has been issued in the highlighted area; creation of an automated tool to pre-approve consultants working for the United Nations, using a process similar to e-staffing. Provision of close and efficient monitoring of consultants from a centralized platform.e-Authentication, e-Contact and “My United Nations” launched December 2003, implementation continues. E-Authentication set the foundation for making HR data available to staff members for review and update.  Release 2 of Galaxy, “dot net” architecture and enhancements to the e-Staffing module of Galaxy scheduled for the third quarter of 2004.SI, PSOHRMUnited Nations Secretariat skills directoryBuild an electronic directory following the organizational structure of the Secretariat.Enabling the global search for specific competencies within the Organization and facilitating the creation of communities of practice.Work is ongoing.L, DOLAOffice of Legal Affairs information management projectProvide for tracking of legal matters assigned; provide for document and archival records management; provide for online publication of public information legal materials.More efficient case management; more efficient document management, filing, retrieval and legal research; increased understanding of international legal norms.Software and hardware were acquired, scanning has started for some document collections and regular correspondence. In second half of 2004, the OLA Registry files will begin to be scanned by an outside data service bureau.PSOLAIntegration of all the elements of the United Nations Treaty Collection on the Internet into the internal Treaty Database/ Workflow systemProvide the end-users with online access to the latest treaty-related information.Broader online access to the treaties registered with the United Nations Secretariat, including their full texts.The following activities have been/are being undertaken: (a) integration of desktop-published treaties into existing Web publishing database and its upgrade to a new software version — completed; (b) Web publishing of the upgraded treaty database — completed; (c) Web publication of: Treaty Event books, Treaty Handbook, Handbook of Final Clauses, Recently Deposited Multilateral Treaties, Summary of Practice of the Secretary-General as Depositary of Multilateral Treaties — ongoing; (d) Certified True Copies, Monthly Statement of Treaties and International Agreements, Depositary Notifications by the Secretary-General and other material — ongoing development; (e) full text search capability, full text indexing of the entire United Nations Treaty Collection — target for completion:September/ October 2004; and (f) data validation to enhance the accuracy of online searches for older treaties and treaty actions, including the League of Nations agreements — completed.SIOLAIntegration of all the elements of the United Nations Treaty Collection on the Internet into the internal Treaty Database/ Workflow systemAllow for automatic updates on the Internet reflecting the corresponding updates in the internal system. Implemented. OLAFurther enhancement of the United Nations Treaty Collection on the InternetEnsure full text search capability for all bilateral and multilateral treaties in the database.More accurate and timely information on the Web.Was implemented in part related to the United Nations Treaty Series search and retrieval. To be completed for the Multilateral Treaties Deposited with the Secretary-General — target: September/October 2004. OLAFurther enhancement of the United Nations Treaty Collection on the InternetConvert to XML and PDF formats the treaty-related data and redesign the interface using XLS for more efficient display of information.Effective online search and retrieval system offering enhanced navigation options and easy to operate.Was implemented. OLAConversion to CD-ROM of the United Nations Treaty Series publicationsProvide cost-effective facility for expeditious and convenient electronic full text search and retrieval of the United Nations Treaty Series and related publications at any location in the world.Effective information delivery and distribution process.Funding options being explored.SIITSDInternet search engineProvide multilingual search capabilities to all users of the United Nations Internet site.High performance search capabilities for all web-page-based content enabled. Long-standing need to have adequate search capabilities in all United Nations official languages addressed.On 12 September 2003, DPI formally announced the availability of Google search on the United Nations web site. The search in six official languages is working well.SI, LITSDOpen access to Official Document System (ODS)Enable Internet access to ODS to non-governmental organizations and the general public.At present, ODS is available free of charge but on a limited basis to permanent missions and capitals. Non-governmental organizations and other organizations are provided access on a fee-for-service basis. Enabling free access to the system would greatly facilitate the dissemination of official documentation, avoiding the need to reproduce documents on the United Nations web site.The budget request for the implementation of free ODS was approved by the General Assembly in December 2003. ITSD issued requisitions in February 2004 to purchase software and hardware that are required for the implementation. Servers arrived in July 2004. Currently, the preparation of the infrastructure and tests are under way. Actual implementation and full test will take place in third quarter. Parallel tests in third-fourth quarters. Production operations expected to start in fourth quarter of 2004.SI, LITSDExtranet for the United Nations systemFacilitate knowledge sharing among United Nations system organizations.Availability of useful information to all relevant users in the United Nations system in a secure manner.Currently, 52 United Nations system organizations are accessing the United Nations Extranet. Thirty-one organizations are accessing the Extranet through site-to-site VPN, 15 through the WAN, and 6 through the LAN. Currently, 10 applications are on the Extranet, such as the Directory of Senior Officials, United Nations Common System Salaries and Allowances, United Nations System Chart, United Nations System Locator, United Nations System Vacancies, UNSECOORD, etc.LUNFIPProject Management Information SystemProvide the United Nations Fund for International Partnerships (UNFIP) with an integrated system with project management and monitoring capabilities and provide United Nations implementing partners with Web-based application to permit submission electronically of periodic progress and financial reports.Replacement of current spreadsheet applications that are maintained with labour-intensive operating methods by relational database application and Web-based reporting capabilities. Streamlining of data capture, maintenance and analysis; enabling of standardization of management reports; and improved timeliness of submissions.Owing to budget constraints, new partnering possibilities, requirements simplification, and the resultant scope changes, this project as originally defined will not proceed but will be reconstituted into one or more future initiatives.PS
	a	Body responsible.


		Abbreviations used:


Dsupport for decision-making processDESADepartment of Economic and Social Affairs of the United Nations SecretariatDGACMDepartment for General Assembly and Conference ManagementDPADepartment of Political Affairs of the United Nations SecretariatDPIDepartment of Public Information of the United Nations SecretariatDPKODepartment of Peacekeeping Operations of the United Nations SecretariatHRhuman resources IMISIntegrated Management Information SystemITSDInformation Technology Services DivisionLleveraging past investmentsLANlocal area networkOCHAOffice for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs of the 
United Nations SecretariatODSOfficial Document System of the United NationsOECDOrganization for Economic Cooperation and DevelopmentOHRMOffice of Human Resources Management of the United Nations SecretariatOLAOffice of Legal Affairs of the United Nations SecretariatOMIOSOffice for Management Improvement and Oversight SupportPCpersonal computerPDFportable document formatPSprocess streamliningSIservice improvementUNBISUnited Nations Bibliographic Information SystemUNHQUnited Nations HeadquartersUNOGUnited Nations Office at GenevaUNONUnited Nations Office at NairobiUNOVUnited Nations Office at ViennaUNSDUnited Nations Statistics DivisionUNSECOORDOffice of the United Nations Security CoordinatorVPNvirtual private networkingWANwide area networkXLSExcel spreadsheetsXMLextensible markup language
[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0449961E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/59/265<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>




2

9

United NationsA/59/265 
General AssemblyDistr.: General
3 September 2004

Original: English


04-49961 (E)    011004    
*0449961*













23

23

