[Start1]
Sixty-fourth session
Agenda item 132
Proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011



		Revised estimates relating to the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011 under sections 2, 17, 
18, 20, 21, 27, 28C, 28D, 28E, 28F, 28G, 29 and 36


		Ninth report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011


	I.	Introduction


1.	The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has considered the report of the Secretary-General on revised estimates relating to the programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011 under sections 2, 17, 18, 20, 21, 27, 28C, 28D, 28E, 28F, 28G, 29 and 36 related to business continuity management (A/64/472). During its consideration of the report, the Committee met with representatives of the Secretary-General, who provided additional information and clarification.
2.	The Secretary-General’s report was submitted in response to the request of the General Assembly, in section III, paragraph 16, of its resolution 63/268, for a fully justified proposal for post and non-post resources in relation to the work under way on business continuity management in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011.
3.	The proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011 did not include a provision for the requirements related to the proposals contained in the Secretary-General’s report (A/64/472). In this connection, the Advisory Committee recalls paragraph 9 of General Assembly resolution 62/236, in which the Assembly requested the Secretary-General to ensure the fullest possible picture of the Organization’s requirements in future proposed programme budgets. The Committee has also emphasized the need to include, in proposed programme budgets, estimates for requirements that are foreseeable at the time of budget preparation (A/64/7, para. 10). The Committee is of the view that the Secretary-General should have provided preliminary estimates on the requirements for business continuity management in the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011.


	II.	General observations


4.	The Advisory Committee recalls that a small Business Continuity Management Unit was established in 2007, following a decision made by the Senior Emergency Policy Team. The Unit, which is part of the Office of Central Support Services, is responsible for ensuring the viability of business continuity planning carried out by the Secretariat, offices away from Headquarters and the regional commissions and for coordinating business continuity planning with the United Nations organizations located in New York. It currently comprises three temporary positions (Chief of Unit, Business Continuity Management Specialist and Administrative Assistant).
5.	To date, funding for the initial activities of the Business Continuity Management Unit has been accommodated within the discretionary authority granted to the Secretary-General by the General Assembly in its resolution 60/283. In addition, in June 2009, consequent to the outbreak of influenza A (H1N1), the Secretary-General, under the discretionary authority granted by the Assembly in the same resolution, sought the concurrence of the Advisory Committee to enter into commitments totalling $8,190,000 for business continuity activities relating to ensuring preparedness for a potential pandemic. The Committee, pending the submission of the report requested by the Assembly in its resolution 63/268, authorized the Secretary-General to enter into commitments in an adjusted amount of $6,133,900 for ongoing business continuity management related activities in 2009, including pandemic preparedness, in order to allow him to undertake the necessary steps to ensure that various parts of the Secretariat, including offices away from Headquarters and the regional commissions, would be able to mobilize and maintain critical functions.
6.	Upon enquiry as to the overall expenditures incurred in connection with activities relating to business continuity management/pandemic preparedness to date, the Advisory Committee was informed that an amount of $3.8 million had been spent during the biennium 2006-2007. For the biennium 2008-2009, as at the end of September 2009, expenditures amounted to $2.5 million against a commitment of $8.5 million authorized under the terms of General Assembly resolution 60/283. The Committee was also informed that, while a substantial portion is expected to be used by the end of the biennium, in particular the resources relating to medical drugs and supplies, it is anticipated that there could be some savings, which would be reported in the context of the second performance report for the biennium 2008-2009, which is currently being prepared.
7.	The report of the Secretary-General provides information on business continuity management activities and planning in the private and public sectors (A/64/472, paras. 17-19), including information on related measures taken by the agencies of the United Nations system, funds and programmes and the Bretton Woods institutions (ibid., paras. 20-22). Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was provided with additional information on the scope of the business continuity programmes of other organizations and the resources available for their implementation (see annex I).
8.	The Advisory Committee notes that the Secretary-General defines business continuity management as a management process that strengthens an organization’s ability to respond to risks and to maintain continuity of critical business processes at a minimum agreed level following disruptive events, while ensuring that the impact of disruptive events on the organization is minimized. The Secretary-General indicated in his report, that business continuity management entails five main steps: (a) policy establishment; (b) risk assessment; (c) identification of critical functions and business impact analysis; (d) mitigation strategy development; and (e) plan implementation, testing and maintenance (A/64/472, paras. 11-16).
9.	In this connection, the report of the Secretary-General provides information on the progress achieved to date at the Secretariat in New York, at offices away from Headquarters and the regional commissions, including information on the cooperation and coordination with agencies, funds and programmes and a description of the United Nations management structure (see A/64/472, sect. III). The Advisory Committee recalls that the crisis management structure is led by the Department of Safety and Security and the system of designated officials for security at field locations. At Headquarters, the structure is led by the Senior Emergency Policy Team (chaired by the Chef de Cabinet at the policymaking level) and the Crisis Operations Group (chaired by the Under-Secretary-General for Safety and Security at the operational level). In the event of a crisis, the Crisis Operations Group would activate the crisis management plan in order to ensure an adequate response and protect the staff and assets of the Organization. If the scope of the crisis causes disruption of operations, the Group, in consultation with the Senior Emergency Policy Team, would activate the business continuity plan to ensure the maintenance of critical functions. The Committee notes that the business continuity plan is not based on particular scenarios; it follows a multi-hazard approach, setting out critical activities to be followed in case of disruptive events, with the aim of stabilizing and continuing the Organization’s critical business functions.
10.	The Advisory Committee also notes that considerable progress has been achieved since the establishment of the Business Continuity Management Unit in 2007. A policy statement has been adopted and all departments in the Secretariat, offices away from Headquarters and the regional commissions have appointed focal points. A risk assessment has been conducted by all departments and offices. The Unit has assisted all departments and offices with the identification of critical processes, and critical staff responsible for the performance of those processes, as well as vital records and information technology applications linked to these processes. The departments and offices in the Secretariat are currently in the process of developing strategies aimed at mitigating the impact of different risks. However, work remains to be done in setting up mitigation strategies; carrying out a business impact analysis, together with the Office of Information and Communication Technology, to validate the prioritization of business processes at departmental level, train managers and critical staff to ensure they are able to continue critical business processes, and testing the business continuity plans and ensuring their maintenance (see also A/64/7/Add.9, paras. 42-45).
11.	Section IV of the report of the Secretary-General describes the response to the outbreak of influenza A (H1N1) virus in the second quarter of 2009. The Advisory Committee notes that a simulation exercise was carried out at Headquarters and that the pandemic plan has subsequently been revised and updated. In addition, a strategy of telecommuting for all critical staff has been put in place so that they can work remotely using Citrix technology. The Business Continuity Management Unit is the dedicated focal point for business continuity planning and, as part of the overall United Nations system-wide response to the influenza pandemic, it is an active player in the existing crisis management structure responsible for defining and coordinating such a response. Within this framework, direct links have been established to ensure planning actions are implemented or updated to ensure close alignment with city, state and federal authorities of the host country. The Committee reiterates its view that cooperation with host country authorities at all duty stations is essential in order to ensure an effective and coordinated response to potential disruptions and encourages the Secretary-General to continue to pursue efforts in this regard.
12.	The issue of disaster recovery and the use of information and communications technology in this regard are discussed in the report of the Secretary-General (A/64/472, paras. 23-28). As indicated in the report, the Business Continuity Management Unit is concerned with continuity planning of the critical functions of the Organization under all circumstances, focusing on the management process, including training of managers and staff, rather than on infrastructure. The disaster recovery programme, on the other hand, is concerned with planning for the resumption of the functioning of the information and communication technology infrastructure and services after a disruption. The programme is one of the backbones of business continuity, or a subset of the wider process of crisis response — it does not replace it. The scope of business continuity planning therefore encompasses disaster recovery, although it extends well beyond it.
13.	As indicated by the Secretary-General, the Business Continuity Management Unit works closely with and is supported by the Office of Information and Communications Technology in two aspects: (a) the classification of critical/ noncritical systems of the Secretariat, as part of the overall business impact analysis; and (b) the implementation of telecommuting capabilities, which constitutes a mitigation measure in the business continuity plan and which is supported by the Office (A/64/472, paras. 26 and 27).
14.	The Advisory Committee notes that, in response to General Assembly resolution 63/262, the Secretary-General will submit a proposal at its sixty-fifth session for a unified information and communications technology disaster recovery plan for United Nations Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters, the regional commissions, peacekeeping and political missions, the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda and the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. In his report on enterprise content management and customer relationship management systems and proposal for a unified disaster recovery and business continuity plan, the Secretary-General set out a set of principles and a framework for the above-mentioned unified plan (A/64/477, sect. III). The Committee’s comments and observations in this regard are contained in its report on information and communications technology (see A/64/7/Add.9).
15.	The funding request contained in the report of the Secretary-General on business continuity management (A/64/472) for the Office of Information and Communications Technology (sect. 29 of the proposed programme budget) is to sustain risk-mitigation measures in response to the threat of a pandemic during the current biennium, covering the continuation of support for the telecommuting infrastructure for Headquarters and virtual meeting support for the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Secretary-General (see para. 29 below). With regard to the requirements for telecommuting, as one of the four main mitigation strategies for business continuity, the Advisory Committee was informed that the requirements were thought to have been more suitably presented in the same report. The Committee was assured that the report of the Secretary-General requested by the General Assembly (see para. 14 above), will take the investment in telecommuting infrastructure both at Headquarters and at offices away from Headquarters into account.
16.	The proposed programme of work for the biennium 2010-2011 for the implementation of business continuity management is elaborated in the report of the Secretary-General (A/64/472, paras. 54-58). As indicated therein, the programme, which is based on the views of the General Assembly as reflected in its resolution 63/268, highlights the importance of close coordination of business continuity policies among all United Nations entities, of the sharing and exploiting of lessons learned and best practices on a system-wide basis and of ensuring a systematic approach that encompasses both peacekeeping and humanitarian operations at the field level. The Advisory Committee reiterates the importance of a coordinated approach with all actors involved in order to ensure the overall effectiveness of the business continuity objectives.


	III.	Resource requirements


17.	The Secretary-General estimates that the resource requirements for the implementation of the business continuity planning and management activities for the biennium 2010-2011 would amount to $9,786,800 gross ($9,423,300 net). A summary of all costs, by expenditure component, is contained in table 1 of the report of the Secretary-General. Of that total, an amount of $2,301,200 is post-related and an amount of $7,485,600 is non-post related. The distribution of those resources, by budget section, is included in table 2 of the same report (A/64/472).
18.	The resources proposed for posts of $2,301,200 include the costs related to 17 proposed posts, shown in the proposed organizational structure contained in the annex to the report of the Secretary-General (A/64/472). The Advisory Committee was informed, upon enquiry, that of the 17 posts proposed, 12 are currently funded using general temporary assistance resources under the discretionary authority granted in General Assembly resolution 63/283 (see annex II). The Committee was also informed that 11 of the 12 positions are currently encumbered, with 1 position under recruitment at present (see para. 23 below).
19.	The following recommendations of the Advisory Committee recognize the importance of reinforcing the planning capacity of the Organization in order to address pandemic or other business continuity management-related issues, as well as the need to instil the required cultural awareness and responsibility in the context of business continuity management in all parties concerned. The Committee also recognizes that, while some operational capacity has been attained, in addition to ensuring a coordinated approach, important tasks remain to be completed, as indicated the programme of work contained in the Secretary-General’s report. The Committee is recommending acceptance of eight posts on a temporary basis for the biennium 2010-2011 (out of 17 posts requested). The Committee is of the opinion that an evaluation of the business continuity capacity should be carried out at the end of this period and that a progress report should be submitted indicating what has been achieved and how the tasks, responsibilities and operationalization have been incorporated into existing organizational and management structures.


	A.	Recommendations on posts


20.	Four new posts (1 P-5, 1 P-4, 1 P-3 and 1 GS (OL)) are requested for the Business Continuity Management Unit in the Office of Central Support Services (section 28D of the proposed programme budget for 2010-2011) to ensure the viability of business continuity planning of the Secretariat, including offices away from Headquarters and the regional commissions, in case of pandemic and other emergency situations, as well as to coordinate business continuity planning with the United Nations organizations located in New York. The four posts proposed are as follows:
	(a)	One P-5 Chief of Unit to provide overall leadership and direction;
	(b)	One P-4 Business Continuity Management Specialist responsible for the implementation of management strategy and policy;
	(c)	One P-3 Business Continuity Training Officer to design guidelines, templates and tools to be used to regularly report on expenditures and test pandemic preparedness activities;
	(d)	One General Service (Other level) Administrative Assistant to provide administrative and other support to the Unit.
21.	The Advisory Committee notes that three of the posts requested (1 P-5, 1 P-4 and 1 GS (OL)) are currently funded as general temporary assistance positions (see para. 18 above). The Committee recommends acceptance of three of the four temporary posts requested for the biennium 2010-2011: the Chief of Unit (P-5); the Business Continuity Management Specialist (P-4); and the Administrative Assistant (GS (OL)). The Committee recommends against the acceptance of the post for a Training Officer (P-3), the functions of which should be provided through redeployment and existing tools for disseminating information. The Committee is also of the opinion that consideration should be given to the placement of the Business Continuity Management Unit within the Office of the Under-Secretary-General of the Department of Management, in view of its coordinating role with all United Nations entities, including offices away from Headquarters and the regional commissions.
22.	Five new posts (1 P-5, 2 P-4, 1 GS (PL), 1 GS (OL)) are requested for the Medical Services Division (section 28C, Office of Human Resources Management), as follows:
	(a)	One P-5 Senior Medical Officer for a public health and infectious diseases specialist who would act as system-wide focal point;
	(b)	One P-4 Medical Officer post for a public health and infectious disease specialist to provide technical support and contribute to all activities undertaken by a proposed public health and infectious disease section within the Division, including in the area of pandemic preparedness;
	(c)	One P-4 Public Health Officer post to coordinate and administrate all activities of a proposed public health and infectious disease section;
	(d)	One General Service (Principal level) Mental Health Nurse to assist in the development and implementation of psychological disaster response to organizational trauma;
	(e)	One General Service (Other level) Health Promotion Nurse to support the work of a proposed public health and infectious disease section in the implementation of health promotion and public health preventive strategies.
23.	The Advisory Committee was informed that two of the requested posts were funded currently as general temporary assistance positions: the P-5, under a recruitment process, and the P-4, currently encumbered. The Committee notes, however, that the posts requested for the Medical Services Division are the result of a process of reform and reorientation of the programme of work of the Division, which has taken place since the requirements for the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011 were submitted, rather than being directly related to business continuity management. The Committee was informed that, although the United Nations employs significant numbers of medical and other health-care professionals, there is no overall policy for occupational health and safety issues or resources or structures for managing, monitoring and supporting globally distributed health-care staff. The Committee is of the opinion that the reorientation of the programme, its global reach and its related resources should be presented and justified in the context of the Secretary-General’s proposed programme budget. The Committee therefore recommends acceptance of one P-5 post, of the five posts proposed, for the Senior Medical Officer, for a public health and infectious diseases specialist.
24.	A new Information Systems Analyst post (P-3) is requested under General Assembly and Economic and Social Council affairs and conference management (section 2 of the programme budget). The post is requested for the implementation of the business continuity plan with respect to critical systems provided by the Department for General Assembly and Conference Management for meetings and documentation services to the General Assembly, the Security Council and other bodies, as required, during a crisis. While recognizing the importance of the functions, the Advisory Committee recommends that, rather than establishing an additional post, the services be provided through redeployment.
25.	A Medical Officer post (P-3) is requested under section 17, Economic and social development in Africa, to act as the focal point for the United Nations Health Care Centre and the service provider for all medical elements of pandemic preparedness, including casualty and critical incident responses. The post is currently provided under general temporary assistance funding and supplements existing capacity, which currently consists of two medical officers (1 P-5 and 1 P-4). The Advisory Committee recommends acceptance of the P-3 Medical Officer post.
26.	Six posts (1 P-4, 1 National Officer, 4 GS (LL)) are requested under section 28F, Administration, Nairobi, as follows:
	(a)	One P-4 Business Continuity Coordinator to oversee the preparations, coordination and implementation of the pandemic plan covering 14,000 staff and dependants in Nairobi;
	(b)	One Medical Doctor (National Officer) to assist in coordinating medical activities and, in the event of a pandemic, to attend to the sick;
	(c)	One General Service (Local level) Administrative Assistant to provide administrative support for business continuity related activities;
	(d)	Two General Service (Local level) Nurses to screen patients entering the clinic and to conduct training on pandemic-related activities and home visits;
	(e)	One General Service (Local level) Driver to strengthen the capacity of the transportation service, including in the event of severe pandemic.
27.	The Advisory Committee notes that at present two of the requested posts are funded as general temporary assistance (1 P-4 and 1 General Service (LL)). Upon enquiry, the Committee was also informed that, as the United Nations Office at Nairobi provides administrative services to the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UNHabitat), its business continuity planning has been developed in conjunction with these two organizations and includes their critical administrative functions. Of the six posts requested under section 28F, Administration, Nairobi, the Advisory Committee recommends acceptance of three posts for: the Business Continuity Coordinator (P-4); the Medical Doctor (National Officer); and the Nurse (General Service (LL)).


	B.	Recommendations on non-post requirements


28.	With regard to the non-post resources of $7,485,600 proposed for the biennium 2010-2011, the Advisory Committee notes that a large portion relates to the development of telecommuting capabilities and remote access for staff and the acquisition of medical and other miscellaneous supplies for use by critical staff during a pandemic or other crisis scenario: contractual services ($3,226,700), furniture and equipment ($1,173,700), supplies and materials ($871,600) and general operating expenses ($745,300) (A/64/472, table 1). The telecommuting solution constitutes a key mitigation strategy, which allows staff members to access core applications and critical information by means of network connectivity without compromising security, thus ensuring that the Organization can continue its critical functions.
29.	The resources proposed under contractual services ($3,266,700) are mainly due to the request of an amount of $2,346,200 for section 29, Office of Information and Communications Technology, of the proposed programme budget. The Advisory Committee notes that the resources are related to maintaining the telecommuting infrastructure for Headquarters for 1,100 critical staff, supporting virtual meeting infrastructure for the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Secretary-General, expanded videoconferencing and the maintenance of Citrix accounts and access licences (see also para. 15 above). The overall requirements also include a provision for the Office of Central Support Services for the acquisition of information management software to maintain the overarching Headquarters business continuity plan ($300,000), the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific ($175,100), the Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia ($114,000) and the United Nations Office at Nairobi ($82,400). The Advisory Committee is of the opinion that some of the services proposed to be provided by the Office of Information and Communications Technology, for which additional resources are requested, are already part of the capacity and ongoing responsibilities of the Office. The Committee therefore recommends that the resources requested for contractual services for the Office of Information and Communications Technology be reduced to $1,846,200 (a $500,000 reduction).
30.	The requirements indicated under furniture and equipment of $1,173,700 are in large part for the acquisition or replacement of information technology equipment, applications and licences to ensure telecommuting capacity for main applications/ systems, and for their maintenance, allowing critical staff to carry out their functions. The proposed resources are mostly for the Office of Information and Communications Technology ($407,300), the United Nations Office at Vienna ($231,500), the Economic Commission for Africa ($112,400) and the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean ($124,000).
31.	An amount of $871,600 is requested for supplies and materials, which is mostly related to the acquisition of medical supplies, as well as other miscellaneous supplies or stocks of food and water proposed for use by critical staff during a pandemic or other disaster scenario. Resources amounting to $745,300, proposed under general operating expenses, are mainly related to the information technology and communications requirements of the Office of Central Support Services ($327,500), including a provision of $163,500 for miscellaneous services of electricians, radio and television engineers and cleaners in the event of a lockdown period; the Economic Commission for Africa ($105,200); the United Nations Office at Geneva ($100,000); and the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean ($81,000). The Advisory Committee is of the opinion that, regarding the provision for miscellaneous services proposed under general operating expenses for the Office of Central Support Services, the Office should be able to provide such services from existing capacity, as part of its ongoing responsibilities, and therefore recommends that the requirements be reduced to $164,000 (a reduction of $163,500).
32.	In view of the recommendations on posts contained in paragraphs 21 to 27 above, the operational costs in support of these posts should be adjusted accordingly. The non-post resources should be further reduced, taking into account the recommendations made in paragraphs 29 and 31 above.


Annex I

		Business continuity management programmes and resources in other organizations 


OrganizationBusiness continuity management set-upWorld BankDedicated long-term Business Continuity Management Unit with four full-time staff; an additional allocation of $1.5 million for hiring of consultants to assist with the business impact analysis and for the purchase of business continuity software package (using myCOOP disaster recovery software); the World Bank rents a hot back-up site for 66 critical staffIMFDedicated long-term Business Continuity Management Unit; IMF budgets $3 million per year for business continuity management; business continuity management at IMF is already implemented, along with a software package (myCOOP disaster recovery software); IMF rents a hot backup site for 55 critical staffAfrican Development BankDedicated long-term Business Continuity Management Unit with two fulltime staff with a $1 million annual budget for business continuity management; plus received budget for purchasing of business continuity software packageAsian Development BankDedicated long-term Business Continuity Management Unit and an additional $5 million received for establishment of alternate site and 
hiring of consultants to conduct a business impact analysisUNICEFDedicated long-term Business Continuity Management Unit with three full-time staff; over the last three years the unit received budget of $11 million to implement business continuity management; organized 
joint workshops on business continuity with UNDP for all UNICEF country offices
Abbreviations: IMF, International Monetary Fund; UNDP, United Nations Development Programme; UNICEF, United Nations Children’s Fund.

Annex II

		Business continuity management positions funded under general temporary assistance resources in 2009 and posts requested by the Secretary-General for the biennium 2010-2011 in document A/64/472


LocationPositions currently funded under general temporary assistance resourcesPosts requested in document A/64/472Office of Central Support Services, Business Continuity Management 
Unit, New York1 P-5, 1 P-4, 1 GS (OL)1 P-5, 1 P-4, 1 P-3, 1 GS (OL)Office of Human Resources Management/Medical Services
Division, New York1 P-5, 1 P-41 P-5, 2 P-4, 1 GS (PL),
1 GS (OL)Department for General Assembly and Conference Management, New York—1 P-3United Nations Office at Nairobi1 P-4, 1 GS (LL)1 P-4, 1 National Officer (Medical doctor), 4 GS (LL)Economic Commission for Africa, Addis Ababa1 P-3, 1 National Officer,
1 GS (LL)1 P-3Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean, Santiago1 GS (LL)Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia, Beirut1 GS (LL)	Total1217
[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0960889E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/64/7/Add.8<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
A/64/7/Add.8

A/64/7/Add.8

09-6088910

1109-60889

United NationsA/64/7/Add.8 
General AssemblyDistr.: General
16 November 2009

Original: English

09-60889 (E)    191109
*0960889*

