[Start1]
Fifth Committee

Summary record of the 55th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Friday, 30 March 2001, at 3 p.m.

	Chairman:	Mr. Kelapile (Vice-Chairman)	(Botswana)
		Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Administrative
		and Budgetary Questions: Mr. Mselle



Contents

Agenda item 116: Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued)
Procurement reform (continued)
Review of the question of the term of office of the Board of Auditors (continued)
Agenda item 117: Programme budget for the biennium 2000-2001 (continued)
Agenda item 117 and 168: Programme budget for the biennium 2000-2001 (continued) and Programme budget for the biennium 1998-1999 (continued)
United Nations Fund for International Partnerships (continued)
Agenda item 124: United Nations common system (continued)
Strengthening the international civil service (continued)
Agenda item 127: Financing of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991 (continued)
Agenda item 128: Financing of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994 (continued)
Agenda items 127 and 128: Financing of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991 (continued) and Financing of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994 (continued)
Other matters


The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.



	Agenda item 116: Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations (continued)


		Procurement reform (continued)


Draft resolution on procurement reform (A/C.5/55/L.50)

1.	Mr. Crom (Netherlands), speaking as the coordinator of the informal consultations on procurement reform, introduced the relevant draft resolution. He was pleased to announce that the text of the draft was the outcome of a consensus reached in the informal consultations, and suggested that the Chairman should recommend that the Committee should adopt it without a vote.
2.	Draft resolution A/C.5/55/L.50 was adopted.

		Review of the question of the term of office of the Board of Auditors (continued)


Draft resolution on the review of the question of the term of office of the Board of Auditors (A/C.5/55/L.51)

3.	Mr. Elgammal (Egypt), speaking as the coordinator of the informal consultations on the review of the question of the term of office of the Board of Auditors, introduced the relevant draft resolution. The participants in the informal consultations had adopted the draft by consensus, and he hoped that the Committee would do likewise.
4.	Draft resolution A/C.5/55/L.51 was adopted.
5.	Mr. Repasch (United States of America) congratulated the coordinator of the informal consultations and the Committee on the satisfactory outcome of their work on the issue. He was pleased that a correlation had finally been established between the term of office of the members of the Board of Auditors and the budget periods of the United Nations.
6.	Ms. Silot (Cuba), supported by Mr. Albrecht (South Africa), expressed her appreciation to the coordinator of the informal consultations. Speaking in explanation of position, she said that Cuba had joined the consensus because it had not felt that the Committee was in a position to analyse in depth other proposals in the broader context of strengthening the external oversight bodies. Such an analysis should be conducted in the future, taking into account the concerns of various delegations in that regard.

Agenda item 117: Programme budget for the biennium 2000-2001 (continued)


Draft decisions I (Integrated Management Information System), II (Review and assessment of the asbestos problem at the United Nations and management of asbestos-containing materials at buildings at Geneva, Vienna and Nairobi and at the locations of the regional commissions), III (Facilities management), IV (Profitability of the commercial activities of the United Nations), V (Construction of additional conference facilities at Bangkok and Addis Ababa), VI (Security arrangements at the United Nations Office at Geneva), VII (Common services) and VIII (Internal and external printing practices of the Organization) (A/C.5/55/L.47)

7.	The Chairman drew the Committee’s attention to the draft decisions. He took it that the Committee wished to adopt them without a vote.
8.	Draft decisions I to VIII, contained in document A/C.5/55/L.47, were adopted.

Agenda items 117 and 168: Programme budget for the biennium 2000-2001 (continued) and Programme budget for the biennium 1998-1999 (continued)


		United Nations Fund for International Partnerships (continued)


Draft decision on the United Nations Fund for International Partnerships (A/C.5/55/L.48)

9.	The Chairman drew the Committee’s attention to the draft decision. He took it that the Committee wished to adopt it without a vote.
10.	Draft decision A/C.5/55/L.48 was adopted.
11.	The Chairman announced that the Committee had thus concluded the current stage of its consideration of agenda items 117 and 168, and requested the Rapporteur to report directly thereon to the General Assembly.

Agenda item 124: United Nations common system (continued)


		Strengthening the international civil service (continued)


Draft decision on strengthening the international civil service (A/C.5/55/L.55)

12.	Mr. Chandra (India), speaking as the coordinator of the informal consultations on strengthening the international civil service, said that, although the text of draft decision A/C.5/55/L.55 had been provisionally adopted in the informal consultations, additional consultations had been held to draft a text that would be more acceptable to all delegations. He would like to introduce the new text at the Committee’s next formal meeting.
13.	Mr. Nesser (Sweden) and Mr. Nakkari (Syrian Arab Republic) said that they supported that suggestion.
14.	The Chairman said he took it that the Committee wished to defer its consideration of the draft decision until its next formal meeting.
15.	It was so decided.

Agenda item 127: Financing of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991 (continued)


Draft decision on the report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services on the audit and investigation of the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (A/C.5/55/L.52)

16.	Mr. Acakpo-Satchivi (Secretary of the Committee) said that, as had been agreed in informal consultations, the words “takes note of” should be replaced with the word “notes”.
17.	Ms. Merchant (Norway), speaking as the coordinator of the informal consultations on the issue, introduced draft decision A/C.5/55/L.52 on behalf of the Chairman and recommended that, since a consensus had been reached on the text in the informal consultations, the Committee should adopt it without a vote.
18.	Draft decision A/C.5/55/L.52 was adopted.
Agenda item 128: Financing of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994 (continued)


Draft decision on the report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services on the follow-up to the 1997 audit and investigation of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (A/C.5/55/L.53)

19.	Mr. Acakpo-Satchivi (Secretary of the Committee) said that, as had been agreed in informal consultations, the words “takes note of” should be replaced with the word “notes”.
20.	Ms. Merchant (Norway), speaking as the coordinator of the informal consultations on the issue, introduced draft decision A/C.5/55/L.53 on behalf of the Chairman and recommended that, since a consensus had been reached on the text in the informal consultations, the Committee should adopt it without a vote.
21.	Draft decision A/C.5/55/L.53 was adopted.

Agenda items 127 and 128: Financing of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991 (continued) and Financing of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 31 December 1994 (continued)


Draft resolution on the report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services on the investigation into possible fee-splitting arrangements between defence counsel and indigent detainees at the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda and the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (A/C.5/55/L.54)

22.	Ms. Merchant (Norway), speaking as the coordinator of the informal consultations on the issue, introduced the draft resolution on behalf of the Chairman. She appreciated the flexibility shown by the representatives who had taken part in the consultations, which had enabled the participants to reach a consensus on the text of the draft resolution. She recommended that the Committee should adopt it without a vote.
23.	Draft resolution A/C.5/55/L.54 was adopted.
24.	The Chairman announced that the Committee had thus concluded the current stage of its consideration of agenda items 127 and 128, and requested the Rapporteur to report directly thereon to the General Assembly.

Other matters

25.	Mr. Elgammal (Egypt) proposed that the Committee should consider reports of the Office of Internal Oversight Services (OIOS) under the relevant agenda items and that, when there was no such item, it should consider them under the general item on the annual reports of OIOS. He hoped that the Bureau would take that proposal into account in preparing the Committee’s programme of work. Secondly, he reiterated his proposal that preliminary versions of draft resolutions or draft decisions agreed upon in informal consultations should be circulated by electronic mail to delegations at their request. The Information Technology Services Division could draw up a list of Committee members with their electronic mail addresses so that the Secretariat could send such preliminary texts to interested delegations as an additional service.
26.	Mr. Nakkari (Syrian Arab Republic) said he was pleased that the Committee was discussing other matters before the meeting’s adjournment; he hoped that it would continue that practice. He would prefer that the reports of OIOS should be considered under the general agenda item on the Office’s activities. He supported the second proposal made by the representative of Egypt, and stressed the importance of ensuring that the texts circulated at meetings were the same texts that had been adopted in informal consultations. In that connection, he asked whether the Office of Legal Affairs had issued a more recent opinion on the expressions “takes note of” and “notes” than the one it had issued at the Assembly’s forty-second session.
27.	Mr. Nesser (Sweden) said that he supported Egypt’s proposal that preliminary versions of draft resolutions and draft decisions should be circulated by electronic mail.
28.	The Chairman, after consulting with the Secretary of the Committee, said that Egypt’s proposal on the circulation of texts by electronic mail was feasible. He assured the representative of the Syrian Arab Republic that the Committee would continue to consider other matters at the end of each meeting. The Committee would notify delegations as soon as it received the legal opinion referred to by the Syrian delegation. With respect to the reports of OIOS, a decision reflecting the Egyptian proposal had been reached in informal consultations, but had not yet been formally adopted by the Committee.
	The meeting rose at 4.15 p.m.
[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0131244E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/C.5/55/SR.55<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>




4

5

United NationsA/C.5/55/SR.55 
General Assembly
Fifty-fifth session

Official RecordsDistr.: General
10 May 2001
English
Original: Spanish


This record is subject to correction. Corrections should be sent under the signature of a member of the delegation concerned within one week of the date of publication to the Chief of the Official Records Editing Section, room DC2-750, 2 United Nations Plaza, and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrections will be issued after the end of the session, in a separate corrigendum for each Committee.

01-31244 (E)
*0131244*

