Annotated provisional agenda
      The present document contains the provisional agenda for the third session of the Committee on Information and Communications Technology (section I) and the annotations to the provisional agenda (section II), which provide the key directions of the deliberations of the Committee.
	I.	Provisional agenda
1. Opening of the session.
2. Election of officers.
3. Adoption of the agenda.
4. Building regional connectivity for sustainable development: the creation of a seamless regional information space.
5. Technological innovations and knowledge-networked societies: new sources of sustainable and inclusive development.
6. Measuring progress: targets and information and communications technology indicators of the World Summit on the Information Society.
7. Regional capacity-building on information and communications technology for development.
8. Consideration of the future focus of the subprogramme.
9. Consideration of possible draft resolutions for submission to the Commission at its sixty-ninth session.
10. Dates, venue and provisional agenda for the fourth session of the Committee.
11. Other matters.
12. Adoption of the report of the Committee on its third session.
	II.	Annotations
	1.	Opening of the session
Documentation
Tentative programme (E/ESCAP/CICT(3)/INF/3)
Annotation
      The tentative programme for the opening session will be issued in due course.
	2.	Election of officers
Documentation
List of participants (E/ESCAP/CICT(3)/INF/2)
Annotation
      The Committee will elect a chair and two vice-chairs.
	3.	Adoption of the agenda
Documentation
Annotated provisional agenda (E/ESCAP/CICT(3)/L.1)
Annotation
      The annotated provisional agenda will be considered and adopted by the Committee, subject to such changes as may be deemed necessary.
      The purpose of this Committee session is to analyse key emerging policy challenges, discuss options and promote the coordination of policies at the regional level for sustainable development.
      In line with resolution 64/1 (annex II) of 30 April 2008 and its subsequent revisions, including resolution 67/15 of 25 May 2011 in which the Commission decided to reshape the list of issues addressed by the Committee on Information and Communications Technology, namely moving the component “information and communications technology applications for disaster risk reduction” to the agenda of the Committee on Disaster Risk Reduction, the Committee on Information and Communications Technology will work towards the following:
      (a)	The integration of information and communications technology (ICT)-related issues in development policies;
      (b)	The promotion of ICT transfer and use at the regional and subregional levels;
      (c)	The development of human and institutional capacities in the use of ICT.
	4.	Building regional connectivity for sustainable development: the creation of a seamless regional information space
Documentation
Building regional connectivity for sustainable development: the creation of a seamless regional information space (E/ESCAP/CICT(3)/1)
Annotation
      As developed economies remain mired in stagnation, realization of an Asia-Pacific century depends on the ability of the region to harness the benefits of regional economic integration. High-speed communication networks are already having a transformative impact on some countries of the region, an impact that could contribute to development that is more inclusive and sustainable. However, the region’s infrastructure networks and policy framework are not yet commensurate with its rising global influence and expected surge in Internet traffic volume. Only about 5 per cent of the region’s population from developing countries has access to broadband connectivity that is high-speed, reliable and affordable.
      In the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), entitled “The future we want”, the heads of State and Government and high-level representatives stated that it was essential to bridge the digital divide, recognizing the contribution of international cooperation in that regard.1 A key approach towards achieving that goal would be to strengthen cooperation in expanding ICT networks. This was indicated in General Assembly resolution 64/186 of 21 December 2009, in which the Assembly welcomed the Trans-Eurasian Information Super Highway initiative with regard to the need to build connectivity in the region to help to bridge the digital divide, and encouraged interested Member States to participate in the development of regional connectivity solutions.
      The Committee will have before it a secretariat document that discusses these issues. The Committee may wish to consider opportunities for intergovernmental cooperation to facilitate progress towards an information superhighway that would serve as an anchor for the creation of a seamless information space across the region.
      Deliberations under this agenda item will take the form of a panel discussion. The panel will consist of the Chair of the second session of the Committee, senior policymakers, and one or two selected experts from regional policy think tanks. This will be followed by an open discussion.
	5.	Technological innovations and knowledge-networked societies: new sources of sustainable and inclusive development
Documentation
Technological innovations and knowledge-networked societies: new sources of sustainable and inclusive development (E/ESCAP/CICT(3)/2)
Annotation
      The pervasiveness of ICT in modern societies has led to the creation of complex systems that are vulnerable to the rapid spread of destabilizing feedback loops. On the other hand, present and near-future ICT advances hold much promise that e-solutions will build resilience that helps societies recover more rapidly from exogenous shocks. Such innovations could also help Asian and Pacific societies create and adopt knowledge that promotes sustainable development. These advances also stand to widen choices at the individual level and encourage informed and inclusive decision-making. As recognized in the Rio+20 outcome document, communication technologies, including connection technologies, are powerful facilitators in the flow of information across societies, promoting knowledge exchange and building capacity for sustainable development.
       The Committee will have before it a secretariat document that provides evidence from the region of how recent ICT developments, such as the Internet of Things, open source software and location-specific information, promote sustainable development and e-resilience.
       The Committee is invited to reflect on country experiences and propose policy actions and regional cooperation measures that may promote sustainable development and build resilience. Deliberations under this agenda item will take the form of a panel discussion. The panel will consist of senior policymakers and selected experts from regional policy think tanks. This will be followed by an open discussion.
	6.	Measuring progress: targets and information and communications technology indicators of the World Summit on the Information Society
Documentation
Measuring progress: review of the targets and information and communications technology indicators of the World Summit on the Information Society (E/ESCAP/CICT(3)/3)
Annotation
      The Committee will have before it a secretariat document that reviews the status of the development and global accessibility of the ICT core indicators, as defined by the Partnership on Measuring ICT for Development, of ESCAP member countries, and highlights emerging ICT issues for statistical measurement, such as the need for the development of gender-differentiated statistics. In addition, the document will contain information on the ongoing review of the progress made in the Asia-Pacific region towards achieving the targets set by the World Summit on the Information Society. The Committee may wish to discuss issues raised in the document in view of the rapid technological developments and the growing statistical needs of the region in this area. The agenda item will be introduced by the secretariat, followed by an open discussion.
	7.	Regional capacity-building on information and communications technology for development 
Documentation
Report of the Asian and Pacific Training Centre for Information and Communication Technology for Development on its activities during the period 2010 to 2012 (E/ESCAP/CICT(3)/4)
Annotation
      The Committee will have before it a report submitted by the Asian and Pacific Training Centre for Information and Communication Technology for Development (APCICT) which discusses the Centre’s programmes and activities related to building human and institutional capacity in using ICT for socioeconomic development. The agenda item will be introduced by the secretariat, followed by an open discussion.
	8.	Consideration of the future focus of the subprogramme
      Under this agenda item, the Committee may wish to provide the secretariat with guidance on the focus of the short- and long-term work in the area of ICT, taking into account the programme direction and priorities outlined in the strategic framework for 2012-2013, as endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 65/244 of 24 December 2010 on programme planning.
      The Committee may also wish to provide the secretariat with guidance to enable full integration of the outcome of the deliberations into the planning of the strategic framework and programme of work for 2014-2015.
	9.	Consideration of possible draft resolutions for submission to the Commission at its sixty-ninth session
      Under this agenda item, member States may wish to circulate, in advance, proposals and/or text of draft resolutions on priority issues relating to ICT connectivity for consideration of the Commission at its sixty-ninth session.
	10.	Dates, venue and provisional agenda for the fourth session of the Committee
      The Committee may wish to deliberate on the tentative dates, venue and provisional agenda for the fourth session of the Committee, to be held in 2014.
	11.	Other matters
      The Committee may raise any matter not covered under the items mentioned above.
	12.	Adoption of the report of the Committee on its third session
Documentation
Draft report (E/ESCAP/CICT(3)/L.2)
Annotation
      The Committee will adopt the report on its third session for submission to the Commission at its sixty-ninth session, to be held in 2013.
_______________
1	See General Assembly resolution 66/288 of 27 July 2012.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

E/ESCAP/CICT(3)/L.1


E/ESCAP/CICT(3)/L.1


4

5

United Nations	E/ESCAP/CICT(3)/L.1Economic and Social CouncilDistr.:  Limited
28 August 2012

Original: EnglishEconomic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific
Committee on Information and Communications Technology

Third session
Bangkok, 20-22 November 2012

DMR 2012-000272  TP040912  DP100912  DI110912		CICT3_L1E

