

Draft report
Review of issues pertinent to the subsidiary structure of the Commission, including the work of the ESCAP regional institutions: Information and communications technology
1. In addition to the common documents being considered under agenda item 3, the Commission had before it the report of the Committee on Information and Communications Technology on its second session (E/ESCAP/67/9) and the report of the Asian and Pacific Training Centre for Information and Communication Technology for Development (E/ESCAP/67/10).
2. Representatives of the following countries made statements: India; Indonesia; Japan; Philippines; Republic of Korea; Russian Federation; and Thailand.
3. The Commission recognized the importance of the information and communications technology (ICT) sector for the Asia-Pacific region as well as its increasingly important role for disaster risk reduction and socio-economic development.
4. The importance of regional cooperation in addressing challenges and gaps related to ICT access and connectivity, infrastructure-building for ICT and the expansion of broadband connectivity in the region was acknowledged, as was the need to address the availability, affordability and reliability of the services. It was also noted that people should have universal and equitable access to education, public health, disaster risk monitoring and early warning, as well as other public services and knowledge, and that the secretariat should therefore promote regional cooperation to improve access to information and ICT services and facilities, particularly for vulnerable groups, including the poor, the aged, youth, persons with disabilities and people living in rural and remote areas.
5. The Commission noted that rapid advances in ICT had benefited disaster risk reduction and climate change mitigation and adaptation. It also noted that the utilization of such technologies in developing countries would require technical and institutional capacity-building at the regional, national and local levels. In that respect, regional cooperation in space applications, geographic information systems and emergency communications was critical for sharing data and technologies and enhancing the capabilities of developing countries. It was noted that adequate emphasis should be placed on developing affordable technologies and making them available to countries and communities for disaster risk reduction.
6. The Commission emphasized the need for member States to collectively address challenges related to regulations and laws governing telecommunications, Internet governance and cybersecurity. In that context, one delegation noted that cybersecurity issues should continue to be addressed by the International Telecommunication Union, which had the mandate to tackle cybercrime.
7. The Commission recognized the importance of developing content and applications for the improved delivery of education, public health, the protection of personal information and property, the preservation of culture and moral values, environmental protection, disaster monitoring and the promotion of modern lifestyles with universal and equitable access to public services and knowledge using broadband networks.
8. The Commission expressed appreciation for the continuous support of the Republic of Korea to the Asian and Pacific Training Centre for Information and Communication Technology for Development (APCICT), for the work of ESCAP in the ICT sector of the region, and for the offer of India to support ESCAP member States in training, capacity-building, consultancy and implementation in the areas of e-governance, broadband proliferation, mobile applications, cybersecurity and regional connectivity.
9. The Commission also expressed appreciation for the work of the secretariat aimed at achieving the objectives of the outcome of the World Summit on the Information Society1 and noted that significantly expanding broadband and mobile networks in the region would provide new opportunities for ESCAP to foster socio-economic development to meet the goals of the Declaration of Principles and Plan of Action of the Summit,2 as well as the Millennium Development Goals. In view of that, the Commission noted a recommendation that the secretariat further study effective and advanced models of ICT usage in social development, including e-government, e-banking and e-education. 
10. The Commission noted a proposal to move the consideration of ICT applications for disaster risk reduction from the Committee on Information and Communications Technology to the Committee on Disaster Risk Reduction so that the Committee on ICT could focus on its core areas of concern.
11. The Commission noted with appreciation the work of the secretariat in promoting regional cooperation mechanisms for the effective use of space technology, the sharing of data and knowledge, and ICT capacity-building. It also emphasized the importance of broadening cooperation with other organizations in that regard.
12. The Commission supported the intent of the secretariat to promote and develop innovative projects that made effective use of ICT and space technology in the area of transport, including satellite-based navigation and positioning systems, and the use of ICT in the area of trade. It requested the secretariat to prepare studies and specific proposals relating to those areas for presentation to the Committee on Information and Communications Technology at its third session, in 2012.
13. The Commission expressed strong support for the capacity development work that was being carried out by APCICT in the use of ICT to achieve national development goals, especially through the Centre’s flagship programme, the Academy of ICT Essentials for Government Leaders, which targeted policymakers, project managers and trainers.
14. Having noted the achievements of the Academy programme, including the localization of the training modules into different languages and the establishment of new strategic partnerships with national training institutions with a view to expanding the programme, some delegations expressed support for the extension of the Academy training, with one delegation supporting the inclusion of chief information officers and another supporting coverage of universities and colleges. The Commission noted the relevance of the programme to national efforts for the development of ICT human resource capacities.
15. The Commission underlined the need to continue to expand the ICT capacity-building initiatives of APCICT, including the Academy programme, in order to help bridge the digital divide and assist members and associate members in utilizing ICT for socio-economic development.
16. The Commission expressed appreciation for the cash and in kind contributions provided by the Government of the Republic of Korea for the continued operation of APCICT and welcomed the efforts of the members of the APCICT Governing Council as well as other member States to diversify the Centre’s sources of funding.
17. The Commission noted with appreciation the offer of India to host the next session of the APCICT Governing Council in 2011.
18. The Commission, having taken into account the views expressed, generally endorsed the recommendations contained in documents E/ESCAP/67/9 and E/ESCAP/67/10.
_______________
1 	See A/C.2/59/3 and A/60/687.
2 	See A/60/687.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

E/ESCAP/67/L.3/Add.6

E/ESCAP/67/L.3/Add.6

2

3

United NationsE/ESCAP/67/L.3/Add.6Economic and Social Council
Distr.:  Limited
21 May 2011

Original: EnglishEconomic and Social Commission for Asia and the PacificSixty-seventh session
Bangkok, 19-25 May 2011
Item 3 (e) of the provisional agenda
Review of issues pertinent to the subsidiary structure of the Commission, including the work of the ESCAP regional institutions: Information and communications technology



TP210511	 E67_L3EA6

