

Draft report
Information and communications technology (including the Asian and Pacific Training Centre for Information and Communication Technology for Development)
1. In addition to the common documents being considered under agenda item 3, the Commission had before it the report of the Governing Council of the Asian and Pacific Training Centre for Information and Communication Technology for Development on its sixth session (E/ESCAP/68/12).
2. Representatives of the following countries made statements: Bangladesh; Cambodia; India; Indonesia; Malaysia; Mongolia; Pakistan; Philippines; Russian Federation; Republic of Korea; and Thailand.
3. The Commission underlined the crucial contributions that information and communications technologies (ICTs) were making in accelerating economic growth and progressing towards inclusive and sustainable development in the region. ICTs offered new avenues for delivering basic services, including in areas such as agriculture, education, health, government, financial inclusion and access to knowledge. ICTs also offered opportunities to address sustainable development objectives and climate change challenges, and to provide livelihood opportunities for the poor and marginalized through job creation.
4. The Commission took the view that proactive Government policies were essential to harness ICTs for development. Such policies included awareness-raising activities, increased ICT literacy and the development of human capacities.
5. The Commission took note of a number of national initiatives, including the introduction of ICT strategies and legislation, that had contributed to the region’s emergence as a global centre for ICT production and innovation.
6. The Commission underlined the role of ICTs in accelerating the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals and noted further that the region was on track in the implementation of a number of the objectives of the World Summit on the Information Society to be achieved by 2015. In that regard, it requested the secretariat to continue to track the progress realized.
7. The Commission noted with concern the persistence of the digital divide and last mile connectivity gaps within and across countries of the region. It called for a strengthening of regional cooperation in ICT connectivity, with special attention to the needs of least developed countries, landlocked countries and Pacific island countries. The Commission noted with appreciation the announcement by the Russian Federation to provide the secretariat with financial support for technical assistance activities in Central Asia related to increasing ICT connectivity and creating a single regional information space.
8. In that regard, the Commission was informed of the implementation by India of a national plan aimed at providing e-governance services and increasing access to the same in rural areas of the country, and its efforts to connect all institutions of higher learning and research through a high-speed data communication network to facilitate knowledge-sharing and collaborative research. The Commission noted the efforts of Bangladesh to mainstream ICTs into its national development strategies through the national initiative “Digital Bangladesh”, and the implementation of a national programme in Mongolia for egovernment from 2012 to 2016. The representative of Indonesia informed the Commission of various training and capacity-building initiatives, including the development of common standards of competence for the ICT sector. The Commission was informed that the Philippines had built a critical mass of ICT competence through its National Computer Institute. The Commission was also informed that Thailand was expanding its broadband network under its “Smart Thailand” strategy and increasing wireless Internet connectivity in public areas and remote areas where fibre-optic networks were not yet available.
9. Several delegations expressed support for the Asia-Pacific Gateway for Disaster Risk Reduction and Development and requested the secretariat to continue to develop it for enhanced regional cooperation.
10. The Commission highlighted the importance of capacity-building in the use of ICTs for national development, including in the areas of promoting small and medium enterprises, delivering public services, enabling access to basic services — such as education, finance and health — and improving sustainable livelihoods as well as facilitating social transformation.
11. The Commission expressed strong appreciation for the work of the Asian and Pacific Training Centre for Information and Communication Technology for Development (APCICT). Many delegations described the in-depth partnership between their Governments and APCICT in implementing the Centre’s flagship ICT for development capacity-building programme, called the “Academy of ICT Essentials for Government Leaders”. The activities conducted through such partnerships included organizing training workshops for government officials, translating the training modules into the local language, customizing the programme for Government chief information officers and institutionalizing the programme into national civil service training frameworks. The Commission was informed that the programme had been adopted in countries beyond the Asia-Pacific region. Some delegations noted the importance of extending ICT for development capacity-building to universities.
12. The Commission recognized the increasing value of ICT capacity-building in the region and took note of the demand for continued expansion of the Academy programme. Some of the areas highlighted for ICT capacity-building in the future were e-Government, Internet banking, distance learning and information security. In that context, the need for capacity-building for resource persons and further collaboration among partners were underscored.
13. The delegation of Indonesia informed the Commission of its Government’s plan to make an in-kind contribution of $230,000 for the implementation of APCICT programmes and activities in Indonesia during 2012. The delegation of the Republic of Korea announced its Government’s decision to contribute the following amounts to support APCICT in 2012:
      (a)	$1,000,000 through the Incheon Metropolitan City;
      (b)	$720,000 through the Korea Communications Commission;
(c)	Approximately $500,000 through the Korea International Cooperation Agency.

_________________
E/ESCAP/68/L.3/Add.6

E/ESCAP/68/L.3/Add.6


2

3

United NationsE/ESCAP/68/L.3/Add.6Economic and Social Council
Distr.:  Limited
19 May 2012

Original: EnglishEconomic and Social Commission for Asia and the PacificSixty-eighth session
Bangkok, 17-23 May 2012
Agenda item 3 (e)
Review of issues pertinent to the subsidiary structure
of the Commission, including the work of the
ESCAP regional institutions: Information and communications technology


TP190512	E68_L3EA6

