
Draft report
Information and communications technology (including the Asian and Pacific Training Centre for Information and Communication Technology for Development)
1. In addition to the common documents that were being considered under agenda item 3, the Commission had before it the report of the Committee on Information and Communications Technology on its third session (E/ESCAP/69/9), and the report of the Governing Council of the Asian and Pacific Training Centre for Information and Communication Technology for Development on its seventh session (E/ESCAP/69/10).
2. Representatives of the following countries made statements: Bangladesh; Cambodia; China; India; Indonesia; Iran (Islamic Republic of); Japan; Philippines; Republic of Korea; Russian Federation; Sri Lanka; Thailand; and Turkey.
3. The Commission expressed its support for ESCAP to serve as an intergovernmental platform of cooperation on information and communications technology (ICT), including through the work of the Committee on Information and Communications Technology. 
4. In that regard, the Commission commended the ongoing activities of the secretariat towards the creation of a seamless regional information and communications space, and expressed support for the secretariat’s policy research work and mapping of the Asian information superhighway aimed at analysing infrastructure gaps, policy frameworks and financing for ICT connectivity. It requested all countries to support that programme and encouraged the secretariat to continue its cooperation with other agencies, including the International Telecommunication Union. 
5. The Commission recognized the crucial role that ICT played in the achievement of a knowledge-based society and in promoting sustainable and inclusive development. It also took note of the essential role that ICT played in facilitating disaster risk reduction in Asia and the Pacific, notably in disseminating early warning information and communications, and in providing communications through satellite facilities in emergency situations.
6. The Commission recognized that, while progress was being made towards attainment of goals established by the World Summit on the Information Society, there were growing concerns that the digital divide in new and emerging technologies was widening. The Commission was of the view that strengthening ICT connectivity in the region was fundamental to bridging the digital divide and achieving ICT-driven investment. 
7. It also recognized the need to collect and analyse statistical information as a means of identifying factors critical for creating an ICT-enabled society, and expressed support for the work of the secretariat under partnerships on ICT, including capacity-building.  
8. The Commission was informed of major national initiatives that were under implementation, which included promoting multidimensional access to ICT, particularly broadband Internet in rural and unconnected areas, the deployment of e-government and m-government which enabled online and mobile-based transactions and increased the speed, transparency and effectiveness in the delivery of public services, including in rural and underprivileged areas. The Commission also took note of the growing importance of ICT in education, health, the promotion of equal opportunities, including for people with disabilities, the policy framework developed for mobile governance, the multi-stakeholder interests of social media and guidelines developed for government agencies on the use of social media. 
9. The Commission noted with appreciation the funding provided by the Russian Federation for policy analysis and the development of a map on the information superhighway in North and Central Asia in support of the secretariat’s efforts on mapping the regional information superhighway.   
10. Thailand informed the Commission that it would host the Connect Asia-Pacific Summit in Bangkok on 18 November 2013, and expressed its hope of welcoming other member countries on that occasion.
11. The Government of Turkey announced its availability to share its experiences and best practices regarding ICT within the framework of the ESCAP programme of activities on ICT.
12. The Commission expressed strong appreciation and support for the work of the Asian and Pacific Training Centre for Information and Communication Technology for Development (APCICT). The Commission noted the Centre’s participatory and collaborative approach to building the ICT capacities of government officials and policymakers, as well as youth and students, in the region. The Commission took note of the partnership between Governments and APCICT in implementing the Centre’s flagship capacity-building programmes on ICT for development (ICTD), namely the “Academy of ICT Essentials for Government Leaders” and “Turning Today’s Youth into Tomorrow’s Leaders”. The Commission noted that those partnerships had led to the delivery of trainings and workshops that contributed to building the ICTD skills and competencies of government officials, students and youth. 
13. The Commission noted that the Academy had been customized to address the needs of chief information officers in Governments and was being used in national e-governance trainings. To meet the increasing demand from other regions, a collaborative programme between the Government of the Republic of Korea and the Inter-American Development Bank was also being developed to make the Centre’s successful programmes available in Latin American countries. The Centre’s knowledge-sharing initiatives and its online training platform, namely the APCICT Virtual Academy, were also noted by the Commission.
14. Several delegations recommended greater institutionalization of the Centre’s programmes and development of new training modules that addressed the needs of new target groups. The Commission expressed its appreciation to the members of the Governing Council of the Asian and Pacific Training Centre for Information and Communication Technology for Development and the Centre itself, and conveyed its continued support for the work of the Centre in the years ahead.
15. The Commission generally endorsed the report of the Committee on Information and Communications Technology on its third session (E/ESCAP/69/9).
16. The Commission generally endorsed the report of the Governing Council of the Asian and Pacific Training Centre for Information and Communication Technology for Development on its seventh session (E/ESCAP/69/10).
________________
E/ESCAP/69/L.3/Add.6


E/ESCAP/69/L.3/Add.6


2

3

United NationsE/ESCAP/69/L.3/Add.6Economic and Social Council
Distr.:  Limited
27 April 2013

Original: EnglishEconomic and Social Commission for Asia and the PacificSixty-ninth session
Bangkok, 25 April-1 May 2013
Agenda item 3 (e)
Review of issues pertinent to the subsidiary structure of the Commission, including the work of the regional institutions: Information and communications technology 

TP270413	E69_L3EA6

