

		Programme of meetings and agenda
		Thursday, 26 July 2007
Economic and Social Council
Substantive session of 2007
General segment
10 a.m.–1 p.m.	45th meeting	Conference Room XIX
3 – 6 p.m.	46th meeting	Conference Room XIX
	1.	Adoption of the agenda and other organizational matters	[1]
		(a)	Appointment of a new member to the Committee of Experts on International Cooperation in Tax Matters (E/2007/9/Add.11)
		(b)	Application of an intergovernmental organization for observer status with the Economic and Social Council (E/2006/87)
		(c)	Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Agencies:  draft annex relating to the World Tourism Organization (E/2006/70)
	2.	Coordination, programme and other questions:	..[7]
		(c)	International cooperation in the field of informatics
			Action on draft resolution E/2007/L.24
		(g)	Ad hoc advisory groups on African countries emerging from conflict
			Action on draft resolution E/2007/L.27
		(h)	Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS)
			Introduction of draft resolution E/2007/L.23
		(i)	Calendar of conferences and meetings in the economic, social and related fields (E/2007/87 and E/2007/L.10)
			General discussion
	3.	Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized agencies and the international institutions associated with the United Nations	..[9]
			Action on draft resolution E/2007/L.19
	4.	Regional cooperation	..[10]
			Action on draft resolution E/2007/L.12
	5.	Economic and social repercussions of the Israeli occupation on the
living conditions of the Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and the Arab population in the occupied Syrian Golan	[11]
			Action on draft resolution E/2007/L.26
	6.	Economic and environmental questions: 	..[13]
		(d)	Human settlements
			Action on draft decision E/2007/L.25
		(i)	United Nations Forum on Forests
			Action on recommendations contained in document E/2007/42 and Corr.1, and E/2007/L.16
	7.	Social and human rights questions: 	..[14]
		(b)	Social development
			Action on recommendations contained in document E/2007/26
		(c)	Crime prevention and criminal justice
			Action on recommendations contained in document E/2007/30
		(e)	United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
			Action on draft decision E/2007/L.17

? ? ? ? 

		Informal consultations
		Thursday, 26 July 2007
Economic and Social Council
Substantive session of 2007
		Informal “informal” consultations
		The facilitator of the draft resolution on the report of the Committee for Development Policy at its eighth session, Ms. Hannah Liko (Austria), will convene informal “informal” consultations today, 26 July 2007, from
10 to 10.30 a.m., in Conference Room XXVII.
		The facilitator of the draft resolution on public-private alliance on rural development, Ms. Fernande Houngbedji (Benin), will convene informal “informal” consultations today, 26 July 2007, from 10.30 to 11 a.m., in Conference Room XXVII.
		The facilitator of the draft resolution on the review and coordination of the implementation of the programme of action for the least developed countries, Mr. Frederik Matwang’a (Kenya), will convene informal “informal” consultations today, 26 July 2007, from 11.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., in Conference Room XXVII.
		The Vice-President of the Council, H.E. Mr. Léo Mérorès (Haiti), will convene informal “informal” consultations on all outstanding matters before the general segment  today, 26 July 2007, from 2 to 3 p.m., in Conference Room XXIV.



		Other meetings
		The information below is reproduced as received and does not imply
any opinion or endorsement by the Secretariat of the United Nations.
		Thursday, 26 July 2007
European Union  (coordination meeting:  OPT)
9–11 a.m.	Closed meeting	Conference Room XVII
European Union  (coordination meeting:  Point of information; Tax matters; Integrated follow-up;  FFD; Public administration)
9.45–10 a.m.	Closed meeting	Conference Room XXV
Group of 77  (coordination meeting)
9–11 a.m.	Closed meeting	Conference Room XXVI
JUSCANZ
9.30–10.30 a.m.	Closed meeting	Conference Room XXIII



    Conference room reservations
Delegations wishing to reserve rooms for informal “informal” consultations should contact Ms. Carla Akhtar (tel. (022) 917 7345, room E.3012) by 5 p.m. on the day before the planned meeting.



		Forthcoming official meetings
		Friday, 27 July 2007
Economic and Social Council
Substantive session of 2007
General segment
10 a.m.–1 p.m.	47th meeting	Conference Room XIX
3 – 6 p.m.	48th meeting	Conference Room XIX
	1.	Action on all outstanding draft proposals
	2.	Closure of the session

? ? ? ? 
 
		Summary of meetings
		Wednesday, 25 July 2007
Economic and Social Council
Substantive session of 2007
43rd meeting	Implementation of and follow-up to major United Nations conferences and summits	[6]
		Coordination, programme and other questions: International cooperation in the field of informatics	[7 (c)]
		Economic and environmental questions:  Science and technology for development	[13 (b)]
		The Council began its joint consideration of the sub-items.
		An introductory statement was made by the representative of the Information Technology Services Division of the Department of Management.
		Statements were made by the representatives of Portugal (on behalf of the European Union), Belarus, Barbados, China, Greece and Paraguay, as well as by the observers for Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Kenya (on behalf of the African Group), Argentina and Kenya (in its national capacity).
		A statement was made by the representative of UNESCO.
		A statement was made by the representative of the Intergovernmental Institution for the Use of Micro-alga Spirulina against Malnutrition.
		A statement was also made by the representative of the Conference of Non-Governmental Organizations in Consultative Relationship with the United Nations (CONGO).
		The Council thus concluded its general discussion of the sub-items.
		Action on recommendations contained in the reports of the subsidiary bodies
			Draft proposals contained in document E/2007/31
		The Council adopted the draft resolution contained in chapter I, section A, of the report.
		The Council adopted the draft decision contained in chapter I, section B, of the report.
		The Council thus concluded its consideration of agenda item 13 (b).
		Social and human rights questions:	[14]
		(b)	Social development
		(c)	Crime prevention and criminal justice
		(d)	Narcotic drugs
		(e)	United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
		(f)	Comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action
		(g)	Human rights
		(h)	Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues
		United Nations research and training institutes	[15]
		The Council began its joint consideration of the agenda items.
			The report of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (E/2007/22)
		The Council decided to consider the report at a later stage.
		The Assistant High Commissioner for Operations of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees orally reported to the Council on behalf of the High Commissioner for Refugees.
		The Director of the Operations, Programmes and Research Division of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Director of the United Nations System Staff College made introductory statements.
		The President of the International Narcotics Control Board addressed the Council.
		The Council began its general discussion of the sub-items.
		Statements were made by the representatives of Belarus, Bolivia, Thailand, Portugal (on behalf of the European Union) and the Russian Federation.
		Social and human rights questions: Advancement of women	[14 (a)]
		The representative of Angola made a statement regarding his vote on the draft resolution contained in Section B of the report of the Commission on the Status of Women.
44th meeting	Social and human rights questions:	[14]
		(b)	Social development
		(c)	Crime prevention and criminal justice
		(d)	Narcotic drugs
		(e)	United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
		(f)	Comprehensive implementation of and follow-up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action
		(g)	Human rights
		(h)	Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues
		United Nations research and training institutes	[15]
		The Council continued its general discussion of the sub-items 14 (b) through (h) and item 15.
		Statements were made by the representatives of the United States of America, China, Sri Lanka, Pakistan (on behalf of the Group of 77 and China) and Cuba.
		The representative of the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies made a statement.
		The representatives of the United Nations Children’s Fund (on behalf of the Interagency Panel on Juvenile Justice) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization also made statements.
		A statement was made by the Juridical Commission for the Autodevelopment of the First Andean People, a non-governmental organization in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council.
		The President of the International Narcotics Control Board made concluding remarks.
		The Council thus concluded its general discussion of sub-items 14 (b) through 14 (h) and item 15.
		Social and human rights questions:	[14]
		(e)	United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
			Introduction of draft decision E/2007/L.17
		The representative of Luxembourg introduced the draft decision on behalf of the sponsors listed in the document.
		(d)	Narcotic drugs
			Recommendations contained in Chapter I of the report of the
 	Commission on Narcotic Drugs on its fiftieth session (E/2007/28)
		The Secretary made a statement regarding programme budget implications of the draft proposals contained in the report.
			Draft resolutions I to IV contained in Section A
		The Council adopted the draft resolutions.
			Draft decisions I and II contained in Section B
		The Council adopted the draft decisions and thus concluded its consideration of the recommendations contained in the report of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs.
		(h)	Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues
			Action on decisions contained in the report of the Permanent Forum
 	on Indigenous Issues on its sixth session (E/2007/43)
		The Secretary made a statement of programme budget implications relating to draft decisions I and II contained in Chapter I of the report.
			Draft decisions I, II and III
		The Council adopted the draft decisions and thus concluded its consideration of the recommendations contained in the report of the Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues.
		Coordination, programme and other questions:	[7]
		(d)	Long-term programme of support for Haiti
			Action on draft resolution E/2007/L.18
		The Secretary read out a statement of programme budget implications relating to the draft resolution and orally corrected operative paragraph 10 of the text.
		The representative of Canada announced that Angola, Barbados, Costa Rica, France, Guyana and Mexico joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.
		The delegations of the Philippines, Bolivia, Cape Verde, El Salvador and Paraguay also joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.
		The Council adopted the draft resolution.
		After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the representative of Brazil and the Vice-President (Haiti), in his national capacity.
		Economic and social repercussions of the Israeli occupation on the living conditions of the Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and the Arab population in the occupied Syrian Golan	[11]
		The Council resumed consideration of the item.
		The Secretary announced that, owing to a technical error, Sri Lanka had been erroneously listed as a sponsor of draft resolution E/2007/L.26 and should not appear on the document.
		The representative of the Sudan then introduced the draft resolution on behalf of the sponsors listed in the document.
		The representative of South Africa joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.
		Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized agencies and the international institutions associated with the United Nations 	[9]
		Economic and social repercussions of the Israeli occupation on the living conditions of the Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian territory, including Jerusalem, and the Arab population in the occupied Syrian Golan	[11]
		The representative of Algeria spoke on a point of order after which a statement was made by the observer for Morocco.
		A statement was then made by the representative of Algeria after which a statement was made by the observer for Morocco.
		Organization of work
		The Secretary made a statement.
		The representative of Pakistan made a statement.



		Information for participants

			The lists of speakers for all segments have been indicated and are open. If no specific reference is made to a list of speakers, it implies that no such list is being maintained. The deadlines for inscription are indicated in the relevant paragraphs below. Requests for inscription on the lists of speakers should be sent, in writing, to the secretariat of the Council (Ms. Lorna Fidler (fax (41 22) 917-0604 or 917-0351; or e-mail fidler@un.org)). The time limit set for statements under the high-level segment is 7 minutes and 5 minutes for all other segments.

		General segment [Items 6–15 of the provisional agenda]
		(19–26 July)
		The general segment will continue until 26 July.  Lists of speakers will be maintained for each item.  The lists are open and will be closed by 5 p.m. on the day before the consideration of the item.  Delegations wishing to be inscribed on the list of speakers should send their requests, in writing, to the secretariat of the Council (Ms. Lorna Fidler (fax (41 22) 917-0604 or 917-0351; or e-mail fidler@un.org)).
		Conclusion of work
		(27 July)
		The Council will conclude the work of its substantive session of 2007 on Friday, 27 July.
		Accreditation
		Updated information regarding registration and accreditation for the 2007 substantive session of the Economic and Social Council is available on the Web site of the Council at the following address: <www.un.org/ecosoc/>.
		List of participants
		Delegations should send in writing the names and titles of the members of their delegations (please indicate clearly the head of delegation) as they would like them to appear in the official list of participants. Please send this composition of delegation to the secretariat of the Council in Geneva (room E.3012), or by fax (41 22) 917-0351), as soon as possible. This information will be reflected in the List of Participants, which would be issued as part of the official documents of the session.
 		Statements
		Delegations wishing to have their statements circulated should make available, to the Conference Officers in Geneva, 250 copies.

? ? ? ? 

No. 19
Economic and Social Council – GenevaThursday, 26 July 2007


Thursday, 26 July 2007 Economic and Social Council – Geneva No. 19


10

9

No. 19Journal

 Economic and Social Council
 Substantive session of 2007
 Geneva, 2–27 July 2007Thursday, 26 July 2007

E/2007/OD/19
GE.07-62404 (E)

