      
Journal

Economic and Social Council

Commission on Science and Technology 
for Development, tenth session
Geneva, 21-25 May 2007 


Wednesday, 23 May 2007

PLENARY

10 a.m. - 1 p.m.	5th meeting	Conference Room XIX

3 - 6 p.m.	6th meeting	Conference Room XIX
               

1.  Substantive theme:  “Promoting the building of a people-centred, development-oriented and inclusive information society, with a view to enhancing digital opportunities for all people” (E/CN.16/2007/2, E/CN.16/2007/CRP.1 and E/CN.16/2007/CRP.2)	[2]

2.  Progress made in the implementation of and follow-up to the World Summit on the Information Society outcomes at the regional and international levels (E/CN.16/2007/2, E/CN.16/2007/CRP.1 and E/CN.16/2007/CRP.2)	[3]

Continuation of general discussion 

3.  Implementation of and progress made on decisions taken at the ninth session of the Commission (E/CN.16/2007/3)	[4]

Introduction and general discussion






E/CN.16/2007/OD/3
GE.07-50859



- 2 -


Summary

Tuesday, 22 May 2007

3rd meeting                   Panel discussion on “Information and Communications                                       
                                    Technologies (ICT) for Development – A follow up to the World               
                                    Summit on the Information Society”

The Chairman of the Commission opened the meeting and made a statement.

The Commission held a panel discussion on “Information and
                                    Communications Technologies (ICT) for Development – A follow                 
                                    up to the World Summit on the Information Society” jointly with                  
                                    the Global Alliance for Information and Communications 
Technologies and Development (GAID).
			
A statement was also made by the co-chair, Mr. Guy Sebban, Secretary-General, International Chamber of Commerce.

The Commission viewed a video message by the United Nations Secretary-General.

Statements were made by the Deputy Secretary-General of ITU and the Assistant Director-General of WHO.

The Commission held a first part of the panel discussion on “How are innovative uses of ICT concretely contributing to achieving individual goals and targets”,  moderated by Ms. Maria Cattaui, Member of the Board, Petroplus Holdings of Switzerland; Member of the Board, ICT4 Peace Foundation .
       
The panellists, H.E. Mr. Gaoussou Drabo, Minister of Communication and New Technologies of Mali; Mr. Walter Fust, Director-General, Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation; Mr. Erkki Ormala, Vice-President of Technology and Policy, Nokia; Professor C. K. Prahalad, University of Michigan; Mr. Chris Kabwato, University of Rhodes at Grahamstown; Ms. Anriette Esterhuysen, Executive Director, Association for Progressive Communications engaged in a dialogue with the delegations of France and Jamaica.

The representatives of UNESCO and the ILO also took part, as well as the representative of the CONGO, a non-governmental organization.


- 3 -

The Commission held a second part of its panel discussion on “What will it take to stimulate and support ICT innovation in developing countries”, moderated by Ms. Hilary Bowker, Former Anchor, CNN.

The Panelists, H.E. Mr. Kong Cho Ha, Deputy Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation of Malaysia; Professor Liu Chuang, Leading Professor of Global Change,  Information and research Centre, Chinese Academy of Sciences; Mr. Jos Engelen, Deputy Director-General and Scientific Director, CERN; Mr. Peter Shiras, Vice-President for Employability Programmes, International Youth Foundation; Mr. Juan Rada, Senior Vice-President, Public Sector and Education Global Business Unit, Oracle Corporation; Ms. Heather Creech, Director, Knowledge Communications, International Institute for Sustainable Development engaged in a dialogue with the delegations of  Italy and Turkey.

The representatives of Panos South Asia, Foundation Digit Alliance and eWorld Wide Group also took part.


4th meeting	The Chairman of the Commission opened the meeting.

Mr. Sanjiv Ahuja, Chief Executive Officer, Orange Company made a statement on “Liberating Digital Opportunities for All”.

The Commission then held a third part of its panel discussion on “Are there ICT innovations that are truly making ‘value at the bottom of the pyramid?”, moderated by Mr. Arthur Reilly, Senior Director of CISCO Systems.
			
The Panelists, Mr. John Gage, Chief Researcher and Vice-President of the Science Office, Sun Microsystems; Mr. John Daly, ICT Consultant; Mr. Daniel Salcedo, Executive Director, CATGEN; Mr. Emangholi Behdad, Telecommunication Development Bureau, ITU; Mrs. Anh-Nga Tran-Nguyen, Director, Division for Services Infrastructure for Development, UNCTAD engaged in a dialogue with the delegations of Jamaica and Chile.

The representatives of the WHO and eWorld Wide Group also took part.

The Commission held a fourth part of its panel discussion on “What innovative uses of ICT and partnerships are delivering 
- 4 -

e-government services?”, moderated by Mr. Abdul Waheed Khan, Assistant Director-General for Communication and Information, UNESCO.  

The Panelists, H. E. Mr. Montassar Ouaili, Minister for Information Technology of Tunisia; Mr. Mincho Vikto Spasov, International Parliamentarians Association for IT, Member of the National Assembly of Bulgaria; Mr. Parminder Jeet Singh, IT for Change; Mr. Carlo Ottaviani, ST Microelectronics Foundation; Mr. A. S. Panneerselvan, Panos South Asia; Ms. Danielle Mincio, Library of the University of Lausanne, IFLA engaged in a dialogue with the delegation of Jamaica.

The representative of the WHO also took part.

