UNITED 
NATIONSE

Economic and Social Council
Distr.
GENERAL 

ECE/TCU/CONF.1/2004/1
23 December 2004

ENGLISH
Original: ENGLISH
ENGLISH and RUSSIAN only

ECONOMIC COMMISSION FOR EUROPE

ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMISSION FOR
ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

Bishkek Conference on Information Society and
Regional Cooperation in Information and
Communication Technologies for Development

Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic, 16-18 November 2004


FINAL REPORT

Introduction

      Economic Commission for Europe at its annual session in February 2004 endorsed the proposal that the UNECE secretariat would help to organize one or two sub-regional meetings to promote the implementation of the information society in the countries concerned and to benefit from the exchange of best practices and policies.  Following this proposal Bishkek Conference on Information Society and Regional Cooperation in Information and Communication Technologies for Development was held in Bishkek (Kyrgyz Republic) on 16-18 November 2004.
      
      The Shanghai Declaration adopted by the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific at its sixtieth session held in April 2004 recommended that action at the regional level be taken to achieve the objectives of the World Summit on the Information Society as enunciated in the Declaration of Principles and the Plan of Action adopted at the first phase of WSIS and to prepare for the second phase paying special attention to countries with economies in transition. The Commission further requested the UNESCAP secretariat to play an active role in the implementation of the follow-up to the first phase and to coordinate the regional preparations for the second phase of WSIS. 


GE.04-24823


      The Conference was organized by the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in cooperation with UNECE, UNESCAP, UNDP and the UN ICT Task Force.  The main goal of the Conference was to promote the development and application of information and communication technologies (ICT) in Central Asia with a view to enhancing its support to the economic and social development in the sub-region, and to identify opportunities for strengthening national actions as well as regional and international cooperation in support of progress towards knowledge-based economy and information society in the Central Asian countries.  The Conference also provided a forum for discussing the draft Regional Action Plan Towards an Information Society in Asia and the Pacific prepared by the UNESCAP secretariat. 

Participation

	The Conference was attended by representatives from the following countries: Azerbaijan, China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Republic of Moldova, Russian Federation, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.  Representatives of UNESCAP, UNDP, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), and Regional Communication Community (RCC) actively participated in the Conference.  Representatives of a number of international and national non-governmental organisations, private sector and academia also attended the Conference making substantive presentations and participating in the discussions.  In total about 90 participants took part in the event.

Programme

	The work of the Conference was organized in the following five sessions:

1. Opening session;
2. Substantive session 1: Contribution towards information society;
3. Substantive session 2: Regional and sub-regional cooperation in ICT for development;
4. Substantive session 3: Strengthening capacities for ICT applications; and
5. Closing session.

      Below are short summaries of the presentations made at the Conference as well as the Conference’s Concluding Document as adopted during the closing session.  The text of the present report, list of participants as well as presentations listed in Annex that are available in the electronic form can be found on the Conference Web-site at the following address: <http://www-dev.unece.org/operact/meetings/bishkek/banner1.doc>.
      
Opening session

	The Conference was officially opened by Mr. Kubanychbek Jumaliev, First Vice Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic who welcomed the participants and wished them fruitful discussions.  Welcoming address to the participants from Mr. Askar Akaev, President of the Kyrgyz Republic, was read out.

      Ms. Brigita Schmögnerová, UNECE Executive Secretary, delivered an opening address on behalf of both UNECE and UNESCAP.  In the opening address she dwelt upon the main issues of the information society and ICT applications, and relevant activities of the both UN Regional Commissions. Greetings to the organizers and participants were also delivered by Mr. Jerzy Skuratowicz, UNDP Resident Representative in the Kyrgyz Republic; Mr. Yuri Grin, Head of delegation of the Russian Federation; Mr. Nouroudine Moukhitdinov, Director-General of the Executive Committee of the Regional Communication Commonwealth; and Mr. Jiang Yaoping, Vice-minister of Information Industry of the People’s Republic of China.  In their statements all of them spoke also about the importance of ICT as a basis of the information society and about the activities of their countries and organisations in this area.
      
      Mr. Kubanychbek Jumaliev, First Vice Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic, was unanimously elected as the Chairperson of the Conference.  In his absence Mr. Nurbek Turdukulov, Deputy Minister of Transport and Communication of the Kyrgyz Republic, chaired the sessions on his behalf.
      
Substantive session 1: Contribution towards information society
	
	Mr. Xuan Zengpei, Director, Information, Communication and Space Technology Division (ICSTD), UNESCAP, briefly spoke in his presentation about the outcome of Geneva phase of the World Summit on the Information Society (Declaration of Principles and Plan of Action) and introduced in detail the draft Regional Action Plan Towards an Information Society in Asia and the Pacific.  It covers the activities in the following issues: role of governments and all stakeholders in the promotion of ICT, information and communication infrastructure, access to information and knowledge, capacity building, building confidence and security in the use of ICT, enabling environment, ICT applications, cultural diversity and identity, linguistic diversity and local content, media, ethical dimensions, and international and regional cooperation.  It was further explained that UNESCAP would present the draft Action Plan revised with the input from the sub-regional conferences to the high-level regional conference scheduled to be held in the middle of 2005.  The Regional Action Plan should also be submitted to the WSIS process as the regional input to the Tunis Phase of WSIS.  The participants were urged to contribute to the draft Action Plan in order to make it possible for UNESCAP to improve it taking into account national policies and local circumstances.

      Mr. Hans A. Hansell, Acting Senior Adviser to the UNECE Executive Secretary, outlined main issues of ICT for development in economies in transition.  It was underlined that the main concern in bridging digital divide was not ICT in itself but economic development and poverty reduction.  The areas where the development and application of ICT would help create new opportunities, facilitate business, increase productivity, liberalise and facilitate trade, and improve services in health, education, finance and entertainment spheres were outlined.  In the long run this would lead to further economic growth that could allow spending more resources on ICT development thus paving the way to the advancement of the knowledge-based economy and information society.

      Mr. Guennadi Fedorov, Chief, ICT Policy Section, ICSTD, UNESCAP, dwelt upon one of the most pressing issues identified in the WSIS Plan of Action – Internet Governance.  The data on the Internet growth in some countries and worldwide were presented.  The tasks and activities of the UN Working Group on Internet Governance (WGIG) as well as the current Internet administration were outlined.  Fundamental issues (access to Internet and capacity/capability building), technical issues (domain names, standardization, regional Internet registries and network security) and policy issues (cybercrimes, e-commerce, intellectual property rights, content regulation and freedom of expression, and privacy) associated with Internet were elaborated in detail.  The results of the recent UNESCAP meetings on the Internet governance were presented.  The participants were invited to share their views on the Internet governance in general and on international assistance they need for capacity building and formulating/implementing state policies in this area.

	Mr. Xuan Zengpei, Director, ICSTD, UNESCAP, devoted his presentation to the second most pressing issue identified in the WSIS Plan of Action – financial mechanisms for ICT development.  Summary of discussions and recommendations concerning financial mechanisms adopted at the UNESCAP expert group meeting and the First Regional Conference on Follow-up of Geneva Phase and Preparation to Tunis Phase (11-13 October 2004) were presented.  Some concrete cases of financial mechanisms employed for ICT development were outlined as follows: public funding in Malaysia; private funding in India; public-private partnership funding in Indonesia and Cambodia; cooperation of civil society, public agency and international organisations in China; public funding leading to public-private partnership in the Republic of Korea; bilateral assistance and funding provided by the International Cooperation Agencies of Canada, Japan and the Republic of Korea as well as the World Bank and Asian Development Bank; and foreign direct investments in China, India, the Philippines and Thailand.  The participants were invited to share successful cases in funding ICT development by governments, through public-private partnership, bilateral assistance funding and foreign direct investments.

	Mr. Motoo Kusakabe, Senior Advisor to the EBRD President, presented EBRD’s approach to encouraging entrepreneurship in ICT infrastructure and businesses in Central Asia, in particular rural communication infrastructure and ICT business incubators.  With objective to create rural communication infrastructure the focus is on achieving universal access to all un-served villages through funding sustainable private operators in rural areas, open competitive and transparent tender process to minimize subsidies and technology neutral selection process.  The ICT business incubators, their goals and services they provide, how to create them and what kind of support EBRD can provide as well as the role of universities were described in detail.

	Mr. Wang Xiujun, Deputy Director-General, Department of Telecommunication Administration, Ministry of Information Industry, China, outlined in his presentation the development of Internet in his country and the basic concepts on Internet governance underlying that the government and intergovernmental organisations should take the leading role in the Internet governance while the other stakeholders should be given the possibility to play their roles.  The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) as an influential specialized international organisation should play its role in the Internet governance.  It was suggested that ITU should establish a special study group on the Internet governance to provide an input to the United Nations WGIG.

      Mr. Dipak Khakhar, Professor, Department of Informatics, Lund University, Sweden, presented the purposes, opportunities, invited participants and expected outcome of the World Information Technology Forum to be held in Botswana on 31 August - 2 September 2005 under the theme “ICT for accelerated development”.  The Forum will be organized by the International Federation of Information Processing, the non-governmental organisation with a UNESCO consultative status, the structure and activities of which were briefly described.
      
      Mr. Igor Agamirzian, Adviser to the UN ICT Task Force, Russian Federation, in his report entitled “Internet Governance – Challenge of the New Age or Fear of the Future” gave a short overview of the current status of the discussions at various fora during last few years on the Internet governance issue.  The different positions of two groups of countries (USA and EU countries on one side and developing countries on the other side) and civil society organisations on the issue within the WSIS framework were described.  

      Mr. Dmitryi Burkov, Deputy Director, Independent non-commercial organisation “Coordination Centre of the National Domains of the Internet Network”, Russian Federation, gave a presentation entitled “International aspects of the Internet Governance – the most important issue of WSIS”.  He analysed the discussions on the Internet governance within the WSIS framework and the tasks, work plan and key issues under discussion of the UN Working Group on Internet Governance (WGIG) were outlined.  The experience of the Russian Federation in creating an effective system of cooperation between all the stakeholders was presented.  The model of the Internet governance analysis worked out by the Ministry of Information Technologies and Communications of the Russian Federation, its advantages and shortcomings were briefly described.

	Mr. Marat Guriev, President, Internet Providers Union, Russian Federation, in his presentation dwelt upon the advantages of the broadband Internet that would provide better opportunities for doing business and improving education process.

	During the interactive discussion that followed the presentations the participants discussed the number of issues related to the draft Regional Action Plan Towards Information Society in Asia and the Pacific, Internet Governance and financial mechanisms for ICT development.  The main conclusions and proposals made during this discussion were included in the Concluding Document adopted at the closing session.

Substantive session 2: Regional and sub-regional cooperation in ICT for development

	Mr. Kubanychbek Jumaliev, First Vice Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic, described the status and trends of ICT development in his country.  Statistical data and major developments in building up the ICT potential of the Kyrgyz Republic demonstrated the considerable progress achieved in introducing ICT into the national economy.  He also referred to the national strategy “ICT for development in the Kyrgyz Republic” adopted in 2002 that would provide a solid basis for further progress in this area.  Taking into account the considerable experience of his country in building up the digital telecommunication networks in the remote and mountain regions he suggested that the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) may consider his country as a site for implementing pilot projects on digital broadcasting in mountainous regions.

      Mr. Nouroudine Moukhitdinov, Director-General, Executive Committee of the Regional Communication Commonwealth presented the strategy of cooperation between the CIS member States in the field of informatization.  The membership of the Regional Communication Commonwealth (RCC) and its Coordinating Council, organisational structure and activities of RCC were briefly introduced.  More information was provided on the preparations for the Geneva and Tunis phases of WSIS undertaken and to be undertaken within the RCC framework.  The “Strategy of cooperation between the CIS member States in the field of informatization” (adopted in July 2003) and the Plan of Action of its realization for 2005-2006 as well as sources of financial support to implement the above plan were described.
      
      Mr. Hans A. Hansell, Acting Senior Adviser to the UNECE Executive Secretary, spoke in his presentation entitled “E-readiness assessment of Central Asia” about the progress the countries of Central Asia and Eastern Europe had achieved towards a knowledge-based economy.  In his analyses he referred to the recent studies carried out by UNECE on the situation in 14 UNECE member countries, including Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.  He mentioned difficulties in introducing ICT into the economy as well as some recommendations aimed at more comprehensive introduction and use of ICT, for example: to implement well-designed national e-strategies, to widen access to ICTs, to invest and make full use of human resources, to undertake programmes of enhancing adult digital literacy, to promote public/private partnership and to raise the awareness of population of the ICT potential.
      
      Mr. Guennadi Fedorov, Chief, ICT Policy Section, ICSTD, UNESCAP, gave an overview of the UNESCAP activities on regional follow-up to the first phase of WSIS and the preparation to the second phase as well as on the regional programme for ICT applications.  The future focus areas of work, proposed activities, expected accomplishments and implementation strategies to achieve the stated goals were described in detail.
      
      Mr. Yuri Misnikov, ICT for Development Regional Coordinator, UNDP Europe and the CIS Regional Support Centre, introduced the “e-SEEurope Agenda for the Development of the Information Society” endorsed in March 2003 that is a cooperative effort to implement the information society in South Eastern Europe.  The commitments of participating states to concrete actions included in the Agenda, namely: adoption of policy and strategy for the development of the Information Society; adoption and implementation of legal infrastructure for the Information Society; establishment of regional cooperation and national implementation mechanisms; and promotion of the Information Society for development were presented.  Some progress achieved in the implementation of the agenda and future plans were outlined. 

	Mr. Elmir Valizada, Head, Centre of Information Resources and Technologies, Office of the President, Azerbaijan, informed the Conference about the Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan on “Electronic digital signature and electronic document circulation in Azerbaijan” published on 1 June 2004.  The concept, main provisions and main steps of its introduction were detailed.

      Mr. Sherali Najmudinov, First Deputy Minister of Communications, Tajikistan, outlined the status and prospects of ICT development in his country.  He referred in particular to the state strategy on “ICT for the development of the Republic of Tajikistan” adopted on 5 November 2003 that would envisage inter alia the modernization of telecommunication network in Tajikistan making it possible to use Tajikistan as a transit point to the countries of the Middle East as well as Afghanistan, Pakistan, China and other countries of South East Asia.

	Mr. Sailau Baizakov, Deputy Director-General, Economic Research Institute, Kazakhstan, spoke on the creation of the system of state governance in Kazakhstan.  The necessity of working out and implementing a national strategy of ICT development as well as strengthening international cooperation and coordination in this area were underlined.

      
Ms. Ainura Ibraimova, Deputy Minister of Health, Kyrgyzstan, devoted her presentation to the creation of a Single health information system in her country.  The concept and structure of the e-health system, major achievements and existing problems of its development as well as the portal of the Ministry of Health (http://www.med.kg) were described.
	Mr. Ulan Brimkulov, Dean, Faculty of Information Technologies, National University, Kyrgyzstan, devoted his presentation to the concept, problems and achievements of e-education as well as the main programmes and projects of introducing ICT in the educational process being implemented in his country.  Such tasks as the improvement of quality of training of specialists, ensuring the employment of trained specialists in state organisations and educational establishments, and prevention of “brain-drain” of ICT specialists were specifically addressed.

	Mr. Wang Jianzhang, Director-General, Department of Planning, Ministry of Information Industry, China, underlined the strategic importance of comprehensive international cooperation in the area of ICT.  Developing countries should reinforce exchanges of experience and cooperation in the development of national strategies and related technologies, training and resource sharing, as well as actively participate in the development of international standards and pushing the global informatization process.  More developed countries should transfer to and share with developing countries the latest ICT intellectual property rights and help them raise the overall research and development capacities.

      During the interactive discussion that followed the presentations the participants discussed the number of issues related to regional and sub-regional cooperation in ICT for development.  The main conclusions and proposals made during this discussion were included in the Concluding Document adopted at the closing session.    

Substantive session 3: Strengthening capacities for ICT applications

      Mr. Xuan Zengpei, Director, ICSTD, UNESCAP, in his presentation addressed the goals of the community e-centres (CeCs) making use of satellite broadband communications advantages for rural development and poverty reduction.  The role and activities of UNESCAP in the development of sustainable models for the CeCs project implementation were presented.
      
	Mr. Hans A. Hansell, Acting Senior Adviser to the UNECE Executive Secretary, presented “UNeDocs” project being implemented by UNECE that provides for smooth transition from trade based on paper documents to paperless trade.  The concept of one single electronic document adapted to different information processing purposes that allows for automated e-business and its advantages were described in detail.

	Mr. Christoforos Korakas, Project Coordinator, Access2Democracy Foundation, Greece, briefly introduced his organisation that is a non-profit NGO promoting the principles and practice of e-democracy aimed at enhancing citizens’ access to decision-making processes.  Advantages and dangers associated with e-democracy projects as well as major lessons learned from implementing such projects as one held on the occasion of the UN Summit on Sustainable Development (2002) and the others in Cyprus (2004) and Greece (2003 and 2004) were presented in detail.

	
     
Mr. Anvar Yuldashev, Communication and Information Agency, Uzbekistan, spoke on the ICT development in his country.  He referred to the national programmes promoting ICT development and enacted laws regulating some e-applications.  In particular he stressed the importance of building-up and realization of the human potential as well as the necessity of harmonizing ICT legislation, working out the concept of computer security and strengthening regional cooperation.

	Mr. Nurbek Toichubayev, Executive Director, Fund “Information future”, Kyrgyzstan, presented the strategy, tasks, principles and management of his non-governmental organisation.  The results of implementing during 10 months of the first phase of the fund programme of work (2004-2007) and plans for three other phases were described.

	Mr. Zharas Takenov, UNDP, Kazakhstan, spoke on using ICT to support regional initiatives in the field of protecting the environment for sustainable development.  In particular, he dwelt upon the aims, structure and possibilities as well as barriers and lessons learned in the operation of the Internet portal on environment and sustainable development in Central Asia and the Russian Federation (http://www.caresd.net).  He also presented the activities and development plans of CARNET that is a volunteer, independent, non-commercial association of the representatives of non-governmental organisations, journalists and academia of the Central Asian countries and the Russian Federation.

	Mr. Ji Jinkui, Director-General, Department of Promoting Informatization, Ministry of Information Industry, China, spoke on strengthening ICT applications and narrowing the digital divide in his country.  He underlined that since 1990s the Chinese Government has decided to promote the informatization of the national economy and social services in a planned and phased way as the state’s strategic decision and outlined the number of actions undertaken to implement this decision.

	Mr. Ants Sild, Director, E-Governance Academy, Estonia, explained in his presentation entitled  «E-Estonia Roadmap - with modest investments to significant results» how a small Baltic country with very limited natural resources managed to become a leader in ICT applications.  Among the main reasons for success he mentioned general consensus among main forces in the Estonian society, political commitment, active role of government, active involvement of private initiative, limited resources that drives innovation and strong media and public support.  Estonia has prioritized the ICT development and backed it up by substantial state resources allocating one percent of annual budget over the last 10 years for this purpose.

	Mr. Garth Willis, USA NGO “Relief International”, in his presentation entitled  «Connectivity in Tajikistan - Integrating Technology into Education» shared the experience of creating the Internet learning centres located in 24 public schools in Tajikistan. The functioning of the centres for improving access of pupils, parents, journalists, local administration and NGOs as well as of other interested community members to Internet and educational information was presented.

	Mr. Joe McDonagh, Professor, Trinity College, Dublin University, Ireland, explained in his presentation entitled «Leading Change in Public Service Organisations» how his country that was in extreme poverty 60 years ago had become a very wealthy nation.  Access to best technologies, commitment to promote education, partnership and the focus on modernization and continuous change in the country public service with particular emphasis on both the enabling role of ICT and the leadership role of senior government officials were cited as prerequisites for success.
 
      During the interactive discussion that followed the presentations the participants discussed the number of issues related to strengthening capacities for ICT applications.  The main conclusions and proposals made during this discussion were included in the Concluding Document adopted at the closing session.
Closing session

	At the closing session the participants discussed and approved the following concluding document:

Concluding Document


1. We, Ministers, senior government officials and other participants assembled in Bishkek from 16-18 November 2004 conclude that it is our common desire and commitment to build a new kind of society, the Information Society. In this society, new technologies, in particular information and communications technologies (ICTs), become an essential tool, accessible to all, for the attainment of a more peaceful, prosperous and just world.

2. We recognize that knowledge, information and communication are at the core of human progress and we reiterate our commitment to the Millennium Development Goals and sustainable development.  We further reiterate our commitment to the Plan of Action and the Declaration of Principles adopted at the First Phase of the World Summit on the Information Society, held at Geneva in December 2003 as well as our strong interest in ensuring effective preparations to the Second Phase to be held in Tunis in 2005.

3. We recognize the development challenges posed by the digital divide.

4. We recognize that ICT which constitute the basis of the Information Society is a powerful tool of enhancing international cooperation between countries and regions.

5. We firmly support the ideas and recommendations on the Asia-Pacific draft Regional Action Plan, and note that the draft took into account the outcomes of the major global events, such the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the WSIS Plan of Action and the Declaration of Principles as well as the WSSD Plan of Implementation.  It further reflected the regional needs and priorities as identified in the Tokyo Declaration, the Regional Road Map towards the Information Society in Asia and the Pacific and the Bangkok Agenda adopted by the APT Ministerial Conference held in July 2004. We appreciate UNESCAP for playing a timely, leading and coordinating role in Asia and the Pacific in forging a regional understanding and consensus on two focal issues of the Tunis phase of the World Summit on the Information Society: Internet Governance and Financial Mechanisms for ICT for Development and request the secretariat to carry out further discussions at the other sub-regional and regional meetings in order to generate regional-wide inputs to contribute to the global discussions on the issues.

6. We welcome the UNECE’s work in the area of ICT for development and its efforts to assist countries with economies in transition to bridge the digital divide, to strengthen sub-regional cooperation in the ICT sector and to integrate their economies in the world economy. 

The UNECE region has been pro-active in providing important and timely contributions to the global debate on the information society, both prior and after the Geneva phase of WSIS. A number of important activities initiated by countries and international and regional organisations in the UNECE region, for example in such areas as e-strategies and e-governance, provided a valuable contribution to the WSIS process and demonstrated a firm commitment to building the open and effective information society in the region.

7. Further, we are convinced that the information and communication revolution is still in its infancy, and the untapped potential of ICTs to improve standards of living, quality of life and productivity are serious challenges for all of us, particularly for developing countries and countries with economies in transition. We are also aware that our individual and collective ability to create and share knowledge is a driving force in shaping our future, and that concrete action and global commitment are now required to ensure that these rapidly developing technologies contribute fully to the achievement of national, regional and international goals and objectives.

8.	We aim at accelerating the region’s transition towards a knowledge-based economy and at realizing the potential benefits of higher growth, more jobs, better access for all citizens to the new services of the information age and we recognize that significant improvements in the efficiency of private enterprises and of public services can only be reaped if working methods and processes are reorganized to make the most of the possibilities offered by ICT.

9.	Our key objectives are: to bring every citizen, home and school, every business and every administration into the digital age and online; to create a digitally literate society, supported by an entrepreneurial culture ready to finance and develop new ideas; to ensure that the whole process is socially inclusive, strengthens social cohesion and builds consumer trust.

10. We commit ourselves:

(a) To give highest priority to the development of information society and to provide leadership in strengthening cooperation and partnerships, both among and within countries, aimed at using the opportunities offered by ICT for development; 
(b) To strengthen ICT infrastructure and enhance content for increasing affordable access to ICT services and information and knowledge for people, businesses and households and for the empowerment of disadvantaged social groups such as people with disabilities;
(c) To promote the application of ICT, especially, such as e-government, e-health, e-education, e-business and e-tourism for sustainable social and economic development and achieving the Millennium Development Goals objectives of the Geneva Declaration of Principles and Plan of Action as well as Asia-Pacific Regional Plan of Action once it is adopted;
(d) To create effective mechanisms aimed at effective use of digital opportunities and corresponding human potential; 
(e) To use ICT to enhance efficiency and transparency, accountability in the delivery of public services to citizens and to enterprises;
(f) To use ICT to strengthen civil society and encourage e-democracy applications;
(g) To create the enabling ICT policy and legislative environment and promote integration of e-strategies into national economic and social development plans with the broadest participation of all stakeholders; 
(h) To enhance digital literacy, as well as public awareness of ICT and e-commerce and to increase human resource capacity to meet the challenges of the e-business environment;
(i) To use opportunities offered by ICT development to generate additional local employment and better working and living conditions that would, inter alia, prevent “brain-drain” of ICT specialists and other qualified personnel;  
(j) To promote access to ICT services of Rural Medical Posts (RMPs) and schools in rural areas, as well as to support the development of community access points to ICT;  
(k) To review legal and other regulatory instruments and to enact legislation supporting e-commerce especially for promoting the use of e-commerce by SMEs to build up their competitiveness by providing appropriate incentives and support;
(l) To promote investments in the development of the regional ICT market;
(m) To promote the development of telecommunications and other ICT infrastructure along with access to ICT services in remote areas, such as mountainous regions; 
(n) To encourage measures aimed at preserving the cultural heritage and traditions by the development and broadening relevant local contents and application systems; 
(o) To create a global system of preventing and combating criminal activities related to the use of ICT and ensuring ICT security;
(p) To foster regional and inter-regional cooperation through the development of regional and sub-regional action plans, harmonization of national legislation, exchange of experiences and good practice, as well as through public and private partnerships for the purpose of sharing resources and knowledge throughout the region;
(q) To undertake other measures aimed at bridging the digital divide at the regional level as well as within countries of the region.

11.	We invite and encourage all concerned organisations to support the efforts of the economies in transition in ICT and e-business development, and support capacity-building activities, particularly in countries with a lower level of e-readiness.

 *  *  *

12.	The Conference gave in-depth consideration to matters related to building information society and strengthening ICT for development, including the draft Regional Action Plan towards Information Society in Asia and the Pacific; Internet governance; financial mechanisms for ICT for development; strengthening capacities for ICT applications as well as strengthening regional and sub-regional cooperation in these areas. Many of these issues are closely interrelated which calls for integrated and comprehensive approaches. Specific conclusions reached at the Conference as well as specific recommendations and proposals for action are contained below.  

Regional Action Plan Towards Information Society in Asia and the Pacific

13. The Conference welcomed the implementation by UNESCAP of the recommendation of the Commission at its 60th session requesting the formulation of the Regional Action Plan towards an Information Society in Asia and the Pacific.

14.	The Conference noted that the Regional Action Plan would take into account the results of the major global and regional events such as MDGs and the Tokyo Declaration of the Asia-Pacific Regional Conference on WSIS and expressed support for the ideas and recommendations presented in the draft Regional Action Plan.

15.	The Conference further noted that the draft Regional Action Plan would complement national efforts in the implementation of the Plan of Action and the Declaration of the Principles adopted by the WSIS at Geneva in December 2003 and suggested that the Regional Action Plan should take into account the needs and priorities of the participating countries, particularly, community e-centres (CeCs), training of ICT professionals, e-government, e-education, e-business and e-health.

16.	The Conference felt that the Regional Action Plan should contribute to national efforts in improving access to information in remote and rural areas and in this regard, establishing different e-community access centres could be one of the priority work area.

17.	The Conference also felt the need to strengthen sub-regional cooperation, in particularly with respect to such issues as prevention of cyber crime, ensuring information security and harmonization of laws and regulations especially related to e-commerce.

18.	The Conference held the view that in order to improve synergy and complimentarity, close cooperation should be established in the implementation of the Regional Action Plan with the Regional Communication Commonwealth (RCC).

Financial mechanisms for ICT for Development
 
19.	The Conference noted that at present, many countries in Europe have allocated special budgets for ICT development, ranging from 1 to 6 percent of GDP, in view of its importance and crucial role in the national economy. However, such a budget is conspicuously absent in most of the participating countries of this Conference. The Conference strongly recommended that a special budget be allocated on an annual basis for the ICT for development activities in each country.

20.	The Conference also recommended that changes and reforms should be considered for the national financing mechanisms and accounting systems for better ICT financing. One suggestion was made to launch a study on how ICT financing influences the participating countries since the countries are varied in economic capacity, legislation, etc, with different peculiarities in many areas.
  
21.	The Conference welcomed the UNESCAP initiative to collect and compile a Collection of Cases of Financial Mechanisms for ICT for Development, and supported its approaches to enrich the Collection through sub-regional and expert meetings and other channels, and its submission as one important regional input to the global discussion process on the topic.

22.	The Conference heard with interest the funding mechanisms of the establishment of the “cyberposts” in the Russian Federation and the pilot projects of EBRD on rural communication infrastructure and ICT business incubators in Central Asia. The Conference agreed that the two mechanisms be further enriched for inclusion in the planned UNESCAP Collection of Cases of Financial Mechanisms, and as basis for project concepts to be developed for cooperation with the sub-region. The Conference encouraged all the participating countries to provide more cases to UNESCAP in this connection, including sending back expeditiously the related UNESCAP questionnaire.
 
23.	The Conference felt that international as well as regional cooperation is required in generating fund for ICT for development, and called on international and regional funding organisations to assist countries towards that direction.
24.	Since information is as a public good, a fund such as universal service fund (USF) for ICT for development should be established through the promotion of the public-private partnership. Such a fund may mainly be used for the informatization of and poverty alleviation in the rural area through the promotion of e-access activities such as e-post, e-government, etc.

25.	Concerns were raised regarding sustainability of national projects executed with funding and support from international organisations.  There are cases when after international organisations conclude their assistance for a given project, the government is unable to ensure its effective implementation and follow-up.  While international assistance is highly appreciated, sustainability of the follow-up work needs to be ensured.
 
Internet Governance

26.	The Conference noted that presently, there is no proper definition of Internet Governance or that it has narrow and broad definitions. The Conference felt that a unified and universally accepted definition of Internet Governance has to be developed. In this regard, the Conference supported the work of United Nations Working Group on Internet Governance (WGIG).

27.	The Conference believed that all stakeholders of Internet Governance such as public and private sectors as well as civil society should cooperate with each other in order to manage current and future Internet Governance issues.

28.	The Conference also believed that the decision-making process on the Internet Governance should be transparent and that all countries should have equal rights to it while preserving their cultural diversity. Especially governments should play a leading role in public policy issues, such as Internet security, privacy, anti-spam, combating child pornography, protection of intellectual property rights, international domain name (IDN).
 
29.	It was recommended that the United Nations and the international organisations, such as ITU that is a specialized UN agency in telecommunications, should play an important role in the Internet Governance.   A proposal was made to invite ITU to establish a special study group on Internet Governance with a view to elaborating systematic proposals on this issue taking into account views of member States.
 
 30.	Since the present Internet Governance issues are not so simple, adequate consultations with all stakeholders are important. The Conference welcomed the present initiatives of UNESCAP and requested the continuation of the present process in other sub-regions of Asia and the Pacific.




Regional and sub-regional cooperation for ICT for development

31.	The Conference underscored the importance of strengthening regional and sub-regional cooperation among countries in order to progress towards information society and promote effective use of ICT for development. In addition to conclusions and recommendations on ways and means of strengthening such cooperation outlined above, the following additional proposals and recommendations were put forward:

(a) To develop, taking into account the experience of the ‘E-SEEurope” initiative, “E-Central Asia” programme which would aim at promotion of joint projects in the ICT sector and strengthening regional cooperation and integration in this area;
(b) To invite the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) to support Kyrgyzstan in the implementation of a pilot project aimed at the promotion of multimedia interactive broadcasting to remote and mountainous regions, taking into account country’s experience in the development of telecommunication networks;
(c) To elaborate common methodologies and criteria for monitoring the state of ICT development, including e-readiness, which could be used both in developed countries as well as developing countries and countries with economies in transition.

Other proposals made during the discussions:

32.	To include “Access of RMPs to ICT” indicator into the system of e-readiness criteria;
 
33.	To explore possibilities for development of tele-medical services using opportunities offered by ICT; and

34.	To take concrete steps towards developing and strengthening a united network of Internet Learning Centers that are open to community access that improve educational opportunities and build stronger civil society; to set a target of ensuring that all schools have Internet access by 2010.

*   *   *   *   *
	At the end of the closing session, the participants expressed gratitude to the authorities of the Kyrgyz Republic for their hospitality and all the services they provided for the successful conducting the Conference.


List of presentations
(available in the UNECE secretariat and at the following Web-site address:
<http://www-dev.unece.org/operact/meetings/bishkek/banner1.doc>)

Welcoming address to the participants by Mr. Askar Akaev, President of the Kyrgyz Republic (in Russian)

Opening address on behalf of UNECE and UNESCAP by Ms. Brigita Schmögnerová, UNECE Executive Secretary 

Regional Plan of Action by Mr. Xuan Zengpei, Director, Information, Communication and Space Technology Division, UNESCAP 

ICT: Leap-frogging or sustained economic development by Mr. Hans A. Hansell, Acting Senior Adviser to the UNECE Executive Secretary

Internet Governance by Mr. Guennadi Fedorov, Chief, ICT Policy Section, ICSTD, UNESCAP

Financial mechanisms for ICT development by Mr. Xuan Zengpei, Director, Information, Communication and Space Technology Division, UNESCAP 

Encouraging Entrepreneurship in ICT infrastructure and business – EBRD’s approach by Mr. Motoo Kusakabe, Senior Advisor to the EBRD President

World Information Technology Forum 2005 by Mr. Dipak Khakhar, Professor, Department of Informatics, Lund University, Sweden
      
Internet Governance – Challenge of the new age or fear of the future by Mr. Igor Agamirzian, Adviser to the UN ICT Task Force, the Russian Federation (in Russian)  

International aspects of the Internet Governance – the most important issue of WSIS by Mr. Dmitryi Burkov, Deputy Director, Independent non-commercial organisation “Coordination Centre of the National Domains of the Internet Network”, the Russian Federation (in Russian)

To real broadband in Russia by Mr. Marat Guriev, President, Internet Providers Union, the Russian Federation

Status and trends of ICT development in the Kyrgyz Republic by Mr. Kubanychbek Jumaliev, First Vice Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic (in Russian)

Strategy of cooperation between the CIS member States in the field of informatization by Mr. Nouroudine Moukhitdinov, Director-General, Executive Committee of the Regional Communication Commonwealth (in Russian)
      
E-readiness assessment of Central Asia by Mr. Hans A. Hansell, Acting Senior Adviser to the UNECE Executive Secretary
      
Review of major and related activities and future focuses by Mr. Guennadi Fedorov, Chief, ICT Policy Section, ICSTD, UNESCAP 
      
E-SEEurope agenda initiative by Mr. Yuri Misnikov, ICT for Development Regional Coordinator, UNDP Europe and the CIS Regional Support Centre 

The Law on electronic digital signature and electronic document circulation in Azerbaijan by Mr. Elmir Valizada, Head, Centre of Information Resources and Technologies, Office of the President, Azerbaijan (in Russian)

Conditions and prospects of ICT development in Tajikistan by Mr. Sherali Najmudinov, First Deputy Minister of Communications, Tajikistan (in Russian)

System of situation state governance by Mr. Sailau Baizakov, Deputy Director-General, Economic Research Institute, Kazakhstan (in Russian)
      
E-health by Ms. Ainura Ibraimova, Deputy Minister of Health, Kyrgyzstan (in Russian)

E-education: projects and plan of action by Mr. Ulan Brimkulov, Dean, Faculty of Information Technologies, National University, Kyrgyzstan (in Russian)

Community E-centres (CeCs) for rural development and poverty reduction by Mr. Xuan Zengpei, Director, Information, Communication and Space Technology Division, UNESCAP 
      
Digital paper for trade: automation of trade documents by Mr. Hans A. Hansell, Acting Senior Adviser to the UNECE Executive Secretary

Importance of e-democracy experiments by Mr. Christoforos Korakas, Project Coordinator, Access2Democracy Foundation, Greece

Contribution of Uzbekistan in the development of the information society by  Mr. Anvar Yuldashev, Communication and Information Agency, Uzbekistan (in Russian)

Non-governmental fund “Information future” by Mr. Nurbek Toichubayev, Executive Director, Fund “Information future”, Kyrgyzstan (in Russian)

ICT to support regional initiatives in the field of protecting the environment for sustainable development by Mr. Zharas Takenov, UNDP, Kazakhstan (in Russian)

E-Estonia Roadmap - with modest investments to significant results by Mr. Ants Sild, Director, E-Governance Academy, Estonia

Connectivity in Tajikistan - integrating technology into education by Mr. Garth Willis, NGO “Relief International”, USA

Leading change in public service organisations by Mr. Joe McDonagh, Professor, Trinity College, Dublin University, Ireland 

      The texts of three statements by the members of the delegation of China during the substantive sessions are available only in hard copies in the UNECE secretariat upon request.
ECE/TCU/CONF.1/2004/1
page 16


ECE/TCU/CONF.1/2004/1
page 15





