UNITED
NATIONSE
Economic and Social
Council

    Distr. 
GENERAL

ECE/CECI/2006/4/Add.1
18 July 2006
Original:  ENGLISH
ECONOMIC COMMISSION FOR EUROPE

COMMITTEE ON ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND INTEGRATION

First session
Geneva, 27-28 September 2006
Item 5 and 6 of the provisional agenda


INVENTORY OF THE WORK OF INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ON THE THEMES OF THE COMMITTEE ON ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND INTEGRATION

Note by the secretariat

Addendum

Strengthening Competitiveness by Promoting the Knowledge-Based Economy and Innovation







Thematic area A: Strengthening competitiveness by promoting the knowledge-based economy and innovation
A.1. Competitiveness
        
 Name 
of 
ProgrammeBrief description of work
 and 
specific focusGeographical
 coverageTypes of outputs
(publications, guidelines, training)Recent 
main 
results / impactEuropean Union / Enterprise and Industry Directorate GeneralEuropean Performance in Competitiveness and Innovation 
(Lisbon Strategy)carries out research and benchmarking to improve enterprise policy. This includes work on the commercialization of science and research.EU member 
StatesRecommendations, studies, best practices.Competitiveness and Economic Reforms, December 2005; "Competitiveness and Benchmarking", European Competitiveness Report, 2004; Industrial Policy and Economic Reforms Papers  No 1: The new Lisbon Strategy - An estimation of the economic impact of reaching five Lisbon Targets, Report prepared for DG ENTR, January 2006. EU Industrial Location and Structure - Statistical indicators, DG ENTR/B/2.European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) provides financing to companies in the ECE emerging market economies. It carries out research and data collection useful for analysis of competitiveness issues. Country lending strategies  take into account the impact on competitiveness. It provides financing for sectors with a significant impact on overall business competitiveness, such as infrastructure, energy efficiency or municipal services.27 countries from Central, South, Eastern Europe, Caucasus and Central AsiaFinancing,  some research.The Annual Report provides a review of the main financing activities. County Strategies describe priorities and rationale for the activities in each country.Institute
for Management Development (IMD)The World Competitiveness Center annually publishes an in-depth study on international competitiveness.  It ranks countries on the basis of their ability to create an environment supporting the competitiveness of enterprises. The rankings are collated on the basis of hard data and a survey, in collaboration with research institutes.60 countries and regional economiesAnnual publication.IMD World Competitiveness Yearbook 2005.Organisation for
 Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) works on many areas that are relevant for the assessment of countries' competitiveness, including regulation, labour markets, competition, the territorial dimension of competitiveness, science and technology, among others.OECD member States, in some cases, selected non- member StatesPublications, seminars, policy dialogue, some training.The OECD Bologna Ministerial Conference on "Enhancing SME Competitiveness"; Economic Policy Reforms: Going for Growth 2006, OECD Employment Outlook 2005, OECD Economic Outlook (published twice a year), Economic Surveys.United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)Investment, Technology and Enterprise Developmentassists developing countries in promoting the competitiveness of their enterprises, including through mutually beneficial business linkages with transnational corporations and the development of domestic institutional capacity to promote enterprise development.UNCTAD member StatesPublications and research, intergovernmental meetings, capacity- building activities.Public-private Sector Dialogue on Responsible Competitiveness, January 2006; The Expert Meeting on Enhancing Productive Capacity of Developing Country Firms through Internationalization, December 2005. United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO)Industrial Competitiveness and Tradeenhances the competitiveness of developing countries through capacity- building in standard-related areas, productivity increases and the insertion of local companies in global networks. It provides technical assistance activities on industrial and technological development and prepares reports and compiles indicators.UNIDO member StatesPublications and research, technical assistance.Industrial Development Report 2005.World Economic Forum 
(WEF)Global Competitiveness Network
and
Global Competitiveness Reportranks countries on the basis of  their potential to achieve sustained economic growth, on an aggregated indicator that includes macroeconomic conditions, the quality of public institutions and technology issues. Also publishes reports with a regional and topical coverage, such as the Africa  Competitiveness Report, the Arab World Competitiveness Report , The Lisbon Review and the Global Information Technology Report. 117 countriesPublications, organization of conferences.The Global Competitiveness Report 2005-2006, The Global Information Technology Report 2005-2006.World Bank (WB) carries out research in many fields relevant for competitiveness (see next table), and provides advice and financing for concrete projects to promote competitiveness, both at the global level and in specific sectors.WB member countriesPublications, advice, workshops, training, financial support.Course on the Knowledge-Based Growth and Competitiveness, 2005. Various country knowledge economy assessments, as part of competitiveness enhancement strategies. Country studies on building competitiveness.

A.2. Innovation
        
Name 
of 
ProgrammeBrief description of work
 and 
specific focusGeographical
 coverageTypes of outputs
(publications, guidelines, training)Recent 
main 
results / impactEuropean Union/ Enterprise and Industry Directorate General fosters the provision of benchmarking and indicators and the support for transnational policy cooperation. The Competitiveness and Innovation framework will be the main vehicle to stimulate innovation in the years ahead (2007-2013)EU member States plus some cooperation activities with non-membersRecommendations, studies, best practices, network building, provision of services to enterprises.European Innovation Scoreboard; Innobarometer; Innovation and Public Procurement, 2005;
The PAXIS Manual for Innovation Policy Makers and Practitioners; Europe INNOVA initiative to network innovation expertise; PRO INNO Europe Initiative to stimulate synergies among national and regional innovation initiatives.European Union (EU)
with
 the EC and the EU member StatesInternational Association for the Promotion of Cooperation with Scientists of the NIS of the former Soviet Union (INTAS)aims to open the European Research Area to scientists of the NIS.EU/NISProvision of funding, dissemination of project results, network building, training.INTAS Collaborative Call for Applications for Innovation Grants with National Innovation Fund of Kazakhstan 2006; INTAS Collaborative Call for Research Project Proposals with South-Caucasian Republics (Armenia, Azerbaijan & Georgia); Summer Schools for young scientists; Innovation Grants.Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) monitors and benchmarks member country technology and innovation policies and assesses their impact on economic performance. It identifies good policy practices in areas, such as support to R&D public-private partnerships for innovation, and overall management of national innovation systems. It also focuses on important issues in public research and experimental development - such as new mechanisms for priority setting and funding of research.OECD member States limited
coverage of some non-membersPublications, seminars, policy dialogue, advice.Innovation and Knowledge-Intensive Service Activities 2006;
OECD Science, Technology and Industry (STI) Scoreboard 2005;
Innovation Policy and Performance: A Cross-Country Comparison 2005;
Science, Technology and Innovation for the 21st Century, Ministerial Level Meeting, 2004;
Fostering Public-Private Partnerships for Innovation in Russia, 2004.UN Commission on 
Science and Technology for Development 
(UNCSTD) provides the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council with high-level advice on relevant issues.It acts as a forum for:- examination of science and technology questions and their implications for  development;- advancement of understanding on science and technology policies;- formulation of recommendations and guidelines on science and technology  matters within the UN system.UN member StatesPolicy dialogue, recommendations and guidelines.2005-2006: "Bridging the Technology Gap between and within Nations";

 2004-2005:,"Science and technology promotion, advice and application for the achievement of the MDG".United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development (UNCTAD)UNCTAD Technology Transfer programmecarries out research on science, technology and innovation, including the compilation of indicators. It is also involved in capacity building activities, including the creation of networks of regional centres of excellence and conducting Science, Technology and Innovation Policy reviews. UNCTAD member StatesPublications, research, intergovernmental meetings, capacity building activities.Globalization of R&D and Developing Countries, 2005;
World Investment Report 2005. Transnational Corporations and the Internationalization of R&D;
Investment and Technology Policies for Competitiveness, 2003.United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO)Investment, Technology and Enterprise Developmentreviews the role of innovation on industrial performance, compiling indicators on industrial and technological development. It also carries out institutional capacity building programes, including cooperation with international and national technology centres and provides support to Platech, a UNIDO-sponsored network of technology parks.UNIDO member StatesPublications and research, technical assistance.Industrial Development Report 2005;
UNIDO Platech, Platform on technology parks.United Nations University (UNU)UNU-MERIT
research and training centrefocuses on the role of science, technology and innovation in fostering development and social welfare, with a particular emphasizes on the linking of national systems with international networks. It carries out research on these topics and conducts also workshops and training activities. Publications are often collaborative efforts that  seek to increase capacity in developing countries.UN member  StatesPublications, studies, workshops, training, advice.Training course "Design and Evaluation of Innovation Policy in Developing Countries"; Numerous working papers, policy briefs and books, including the periodicals UNU Policy Brief and Technology Policy Brief.

World Bank (WB) carries out research, data collection, capacity-building and financing of innovation-related projects. In addition, it organises learning events, presentations and conferences on innovation topics. It focusses on the contribution of  R&D to competitiveness, technology acquisition and diffusion and science and technology policy making capacity.WB member countriesPublications, advice, workshops, training, financial support.Course on the Knowledge-Based Growth and Competitiveness, 2005. Various country knowledge economy assessments, as part of competitiveness enhancement strategies. Country studies on building competitiveness.

A.3. Knowledge-based economy 
        

Name 
of  
ProgrammeBrief description of work
 and 
specific focusGeographical
 coverageTypes of outputs
(publications, guidelines, training)Recent 
main 
results / impactEuropean Union
 (EU)Lisbon Agenda 2000 
"i2010: European Information Society 2010"
The two specific programmes in the CIP framework are:
· Entrepreneurship and Innovation Programme; and
· ICT Policy Support Programmeimplements the Lisbon strategy, the objective of which is to make the region the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. This involves a number of programmes and initiatives. The eEurope 2005 initiative, for
example, targets the higher adoption of broadband. The EU has recently renewed its commitment to the Lisbon strategy in the form  of the first “Competitiveness and Innovation framework Programme (CIP)” which will run from 2007 to 2013, with a budget of approximately EUR 3.6 billion. EU member StatesRecommendations, studies, conferences.The European e-Skills Conference, September 2004;
3rd Ministerial eGovernment Conference, Dec. 2005;
EU e-Learning Conference, July 2006;
Conference and exhibition on the theme “ICT for an inclusive society”, June 2006
International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)Procuring ICTshas developed a practical guide to help government decision makers obtain the best value from their investment in information and communication technologies.ICC represented countriesPublications, studies.Procuring ICTs - toolkit for e-business, 2004.International Telecommuni-cation Union (ITU)E-Strategies - Empowering Initiatives facilitates the development of interconnected networks to promote global connectivity. It works in technical and policy aspects of ICT, including issues related to the Internet and enhancement of security and trust in the use of public networks. It implements projects with multipurpose objectives, enhancing ICT literacy and building awareness on the potentials of ICTs. It also deals with other e-services related issues such as integrated broadband cable networks, television and sound transmission, multimedia services, systems and terminals, and others.ITU member StatesPublications and studies, workshops, seminars, advisory services."World Information Society Report" with the "Digital Opportunity Index (DOI)" to track ICT diffusion, November 2005;
ICT Regulation Toolkit;
The Golden Book - a permanent record of the new commitments during the Tunis phase of the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS), 2005. International Trade Centre (ITC)E-Trade Bridge Programme for SMEs  "e-Nabling SMEs"equips SMEs with skills and tools to make them use "e" in trade and thus enhance their competitiveness and presence in global markets. ITC member StatesPublications and studies, workshops, seminars, advisory services."Use-Divide" Workshop, March 2006, Chisinau, Rep. of Moldova;
State of E-Business and Potential for Development in Kazakhstan, 2003;
State of E-Business and Potential for Development in Kyrgyzstan, 2003.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)Committee for Information, Computer and Communications Policy (ICCP) promotes the application of ICT as a key input to productivity and growth. It instigates a number of ICT policies and projects to promote the diffusion and development of ICT technologies in the public and private sectors, including projects on ICT policy, network infrastructure, IT skills and training initiatives, e-Government and e-Learning. It produces as well a number of publications. OECD member States, in some cases, selected non- member countriesPublications, seminars, policy dialogue,  training.OECD Information Technology Outlook,
OECD Comunications Outlook,
OECD Science, Technology and Industry (STI) Scoreboard 2005,
Guide to Measuring the Information Society 2005.
UN ICT Task ForceGlobal Alliance for ICT and Developmentmainstreams and integrates ICT into the broader UN development agenda.UN member StatesPublications, studies, guidelines, conferences, etc."Principles and Elements of a Global Alliance for ICT and Development";
"Harnessing the Potential of ICT for Education"United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs / United Nations Development Account 
(UNDESA / UNDA)Knowledge networks through ICT access points for disadvantaged communitiespromotes cooperation with all regional commissions, including UNECE, in strengthening the capacity of poor and disadvantaged communities, women in particular, for accessing business information. UN member States Project document is currently under final approval.United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs / United Nations Development Account 
(UNDESA / UNDA)Capacity-building on ICT policymaking 

provides training, technical assistance and advisory services to policymakers from developing countries in designing comprehensive and sustainable ICT for development policies.
(Programme run in cooperation with all Regional Commissions)UN member States Regional training seminars on ICT policy makingProject document is currently under final approval.United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs / United Nations Public Administration Network
 (UNDESA / UN PAN)E-Government for Development: 
Capacity-building Initiative on ICT for Development promotes the adoption of modern ICT in Public Administration as an effective tool to enhance Public Sector reform, with a specific focus on e-Accounting applications.UN member StatesPublications, studies, guidelines, toolkits.UN Global E-Government Readiness Report 2005;
Compendium of Innovative 
E-government Practices 2005.United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)The ICT and 
e- Commerce, 
e-Business for development Branchundertakes policy-oriented work on the implications of ICT, internet and e-business technologies for developing countries and economies in transition. It promotes the application of ICTs in the tourism industry. It furthermore produces reports with a focus on developing countries.UNCTAD member StatesPublications, studies, guidelines, training courses, etc.Information Economy Report, 2005;
The Divital Divide: ICT Development Indices 2004;
E-Commerce and Development Report 2004.United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)UNDP ICTD Initiativeshelps developing countries design strategic approaches to ICT for development (ICTD) and links it to Poverty Reduction Strategies. Through its regional and national offices, it promotes e-governance, e-democracy and provides assistance in the design and implementation of national ICT for development strategies.  UN member States "Human Development Report 2004: Towards a Knowledge-based Economy";
Bridging the Gender Digital Divide, UNDP 2005Bratislava Regional Support Center for South East Europe eSEE (e-Southeastern Europe)has promoted the diffusion of ICT in the region.South-east european countries and the Rep. of MoldovaPublications, seminars, policy dialogue, training.A Collection of Best Practices and Know-How in ICT for Development, UNDP BRC, April 2004.United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE)SPECA Project Working Group (PWG) on ICT for Developmentsupports the transformation of the SPECA countries into knowledge-based economies through: (i) facilitating cooperation on initiatives related to knowledge-based economy; (ii) supporting capacity-building activities and programmes; (iii) serving as a forum for discussion of issues on ICT for Development; and (iv) promoting the Public-Private Sector Partnership (PPP) and multi-stakeholder approach. (Jointly with UNESCAP)SPECA member countries  Inaugural session of the SPECA Project Working Group on ICT for Development, Baku, Azerbaijan, 5-6 December 2005.ICT Access Pointswill organize activities as a regional component of a global UNDA project on ICT Access Points, whose aim is to transform existing ICT access points located in disadvantaged communities into knowledge hubs of global networks. (Jointly with UNESCAP)idem In the process of approval.United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE)Capacity-building on ICT policymaking
supports capacity-building on ICT policymaking for the SPECA member countries through organization of regional and national capacity-building seminars, as well as providing advisory services. Project is financed through a global UNDA project on "Capacity-building on ICT policy making" (Jointly with UNESCAP)idem First capacity-building seminar on ICT policymaking for the SPECA 
member countries, July 2006, Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan.United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (UNESCAP)e-Governmentsupports improved ICT application, ICT policy and space technology applications, providing assistance to its member states in planning and implementation of  policies and programmes. Its activities include: e-government, rural ICT services and e-learning.UNESCAP member StatesPublications, advice, conferences, workshops, training.Implementing e-Government, Report of the Regional Workshop, Bangkok, June 2004.World Bank (WB)Global Information & Communication &Technologies Department (GICT)

Information for Development programme
(InfoDev)provides advice and financing for specific projects to promote the knowledge based economy and innovation in developing countries. It promotes the diffusion of ICT to underserved areas through the use of mobile and fixed line services, advanced telephony such as broadband and through deregulation and liberalization of markets. It also encourages diffusion of special knowledge products and services for the purpose of development and poverty reduction through InfoDev.WB member countriesPublications, advice, advisory 
workshops, training."Information and Communications for Development 2006: Global Trends and Policies", 2006;

InfoDev - Linking Knowledge and Action in ICT for Development, Conference, June 2006.

2
     
     


1
     
     


GE.06-24147

     

     





