[Start1]
		Secretary-General’s bulletin 


		Information and Communications Technology Board


	The Secretary-General, for the purpose of maximizing the contribution of information and communications technology to the ongoing improvement of the effectiveness and efficiency of programme delivery and management throughout the global Secretariat, promulgates the following:

		Section 1
Purposes of the Information and Communications Technology Board 

1.1	The mandate of the Information and Communications Technology Board is to ensure coherent and coordinated global usage of information and communications technology across departments and duty stations, in line with the objectives of the Secretariat and the central policy direction provided by the Steering Committee on Reform and Management.
1.2	The overall goals of the Board are to ensure that the information and communications technology needs of departments are identified and met; to ensure maximum standardization of systems; to avoid duplication of efforts; to ensure that all the departments and offices in the Secretariat progressively reach a level of information and communications technology usage consistent with their needs in terms of programme delivery and management; and to ensure that departmental information and communications technology projects and initiatives are aligned with the overall goals and priorities of the Secretariat.

		Section 2
Functions 

	The Information and Communications Technology Board shall perform the following functions:
	(a)	Coordinate the implementation of the report of the Secretary-General entitled “Information and communication technology strategy” (A/57/620);
	(b)	Advise the Steering Committee on Reform and Management on the direction the United Nations should take in the implementation and management of information and communications technology on the basis of its ongoing monitoring of the Organization’s requirements and industry trends, and update the strategy as directed by the Steering Committee;
	(c)	Submit biannual progress reports to the Steering Committee on the implementation of the strategy;
	(d)	Decide on standards to be implemented Secretariat-wide as proposed by the Information Technology Services Division;
	(e)	On the basis of departmental plans, coordinate comprehensive analyses of future requirements for infrastructure and services; 
	(f)	Liaise with local information and communications technology committees at offices away from Headquarters, funds and programmes and inter-agency coordination machinery.

		Section 3
Composition 

3.1	The Information and Communications Technology Board shall consist of a chairperson, who shall be the Assistant Secretary-General for Central Support Services, and members appointed by the Secretary-General, normally managers at the D-1 level, representing all departments at Headquarters and one representative from each office away from Headquarters. Members of the Board should preferably be the chairpersons of departmental information and communications technology committees and, for duty stations away from Headquarters, chairpersons of local information and communications technology committees. The members shall be appointed for a two-year period.
3.2	The Assistant Secretary-General for Central Support Services may assign the Director, Information Technology Services Division, to act as chairperson on his or her behalf, if so required. Alternate members, at the P-5 level, shall be appointed to participate in deliberations that directly concern their department when the member is unable to participate.
3.3	The Board shall invite heads of organizational units and representatives of funds and programmes who are not members to participate in meetings when issues of specific concern to their area of responsibility are being considered. 

		Section 4
Operations 

4.1	The Information and Communications Technology Board shall meet at least once every six weeks.
4.2	The Board shall prepare an annual report of its activities to be incorporated into an overall biennial report on the developments of information and communications technology in the Secretariat.
4.3	Ad hoc task forces, comprising a small number of experienced staff from various departments and offices away from Headquarters, may be established by the Board for the resolution of ad hoc issues, with a very precise mandate and specific time frames for the completion of their tasks. As appropriate, United Nations funds and programmes shall be associated with the work of these task forces.
4.4	All departments and offices away from Headquarters shall establish internal or local information and communications technology groups or committees following the pattern of the Board. They shall establish departmental strategies aligned with the overall objectives of the Secretariat; maintain and update information on departmental systems, resources and assets; review existing systems to confirm their cost-effectiveness; and ensure that standard methodologies are consistently used for information and communications technology projects. The internal or local information and communications technology groups or committees shall also be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the actions referred to in the report of the Secretary-General at the department or duty station level.
4.5	The departmental representative on the Board or on local committees shall be the liaison between departments and the Board to ensure the consistency of departmental plans and strategies with the overall Secretariat strategy and shall contribute to its constant updating.
4.6	The Information Technology Services Division, in addition to its operational responsibilities for infrastructure, enterprise-wide systems and telecommunications, shall, in consultation with the Board and information and communications technology committees at offices away from Headquarters, formulate policies and standards and provide secretariat support and advice to the Board, the local committees and the task forces. 

		Section 5
Project Review Committee

5.1	The Project Review Committee is hereby established.
5.2	The purpose of the Committee is to apply uniformly the standards decided upon by the Information and Communications Technology Board to information and communications technology initiatives within the Organization and to recommend whether such initiatives should proceed.
5.3	The Committee shall consist of seven members and seven alternate members:
	(a)	The Director, Information Technology Services Division, shall be a member and the chairperson of the Committee;
	(b)	The chairperson of the Board shall appoint, with the approval of the Board, the remaining members: three members shall be appointed each from a different department at Headquarters and three members shall be appointed each from a different office away from Headquarters;
	(c)	For each member, the chairperson of the Board shall appoint, with the approval of the Board, an alternate member;
	(d)	The chairperson of the Board shall designate one of the members to serve as the vice-chairperson of the Committee; 
	(e)	The term of appointment for each member or alternate member shall be one year. 
5.4	An alternate member may serve in the place of the member, including for the purpose of attaining a quorum, except that no alternate member may serve as the chairperson or vice-chairperson of the Committee.
5.5	Meetings shall be called and presided over only by the chairperson of the Committee, except that he or she may delegate these authorities to the vice-chairperson from time to time. 
5.6	A quorum for a meeting of the Committee shall exist when five members or their respective alternate members are present.
5.7	The Committee shall make its recommendations to the chairperson of the Board.

		Section 6
Final provisions 

6.1	The present bulletin shall enter into force on 1 December 2003.
6.2	Secretary-General’s bulletin ST/SGB/2001/5, entitled “Information and Communications Technology Board”, is hereby abolished. 


(Signed) Kofi A. Annan
Secretary-General

[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0363008E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>ST/SGB/2003/17<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>




1

3

United NationsST/SGB/2003/17 
Secretariat
21 November 2003



03-63008 (E)    011203
*0363008*

4

