TDUnited Nations
Conference
on Trade and
DevelopmentDistr.


TD/B/COM.3/L.22
25 February 2002

Original: ENGLISH
TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT BOARD
Commission on Enterprise, Business Facilitation
  Facilitation and Development
Sixth session
Geneva, 18 – 21 February 2001
Agenda item 5

MAINSTREAMING GENDER IN ORDER TO PROMOTE OPPORTUNITIES

Agreed recommendations?

1. The Commission took note of the outcome of the Expert Meeting on Mainstreaming Gender in Order to Promote Opportunities, as contained in document TD/B/COM.3/40-TD/B/COM.3/EM.14/3.

2. The Commission recognized that mainstreaming gender in policy making and implementation is necessary to achieve development goals. Including the contribution, perspectives and priorities of women and men in economic policies and programmes is critical for the success of these very same policies and programmes.

3.	The Commission accordingly invites Governments, the international community and UNCTAD to consider all the recommendations made by the Group of Experts in the five areas of commodities, trade in services, FDI policy, enterprise development and information and communications technology (ICT) policy.

4.	The Commission made the following recommendations on the areas of entrepreneurship and information and communications technology (ICT) and invites the international community, including UNCTAD, to take into account the special needs of LDCs when implementing them.

A.	Recommendations at the national level

5.	Governments are urged to review and adapt laws and commercial regulations to enhance women’s access to ownership and use of economic resources.

6.	Governments are urged to collect gender-disaggregated statistics on entrepreneurship and ICT in order to better evaluate the gender impact of their policies.

7.	To ensure that domestic financial institutions reach the underserved segment of women entrepreneurs, Governments should: 

(i) Encourage commercial banks to report the composition of their loan portfolios by gender of client;
(ii) Support innovative financial incentives for women entrepreneurs, such as special credit lines; and
(iii) Promote linkages between lenders and business development service providers to support women entrepreneurs.

8.	Recognizing the importance of knowledge and the Internet, Governments should ensure rapid, equitable and affordable access to the Internet and ICT for women by taking all the appropriate measures.

9. In order to ensure that women take advantage of the opportunities created by the Internet and electronic commerce, Governments are encouraged to implement various awareness-raising and training programmes aimed at women, especially in rural areas.

10. In order to provide women with the full advantage of ICT, Governments are encouraged to increase the participation of women in the information technology sector by designing policies aiming at promoting the participation of female students in ICT-related courses and increasing the representation of women in ICT policy-making bodies.

B.	Recommendations to the international community 

11. Relevant international organizations should promote training programmes for bank management and staff in order to sensitize them to the needs of women entrepreneurs and the potential benefits of reaching this underserved market.

12.	Relevant international organizations are urged to collect gender-disaggregated statistics in their field of specialization. 

13.	The international community is encouraged to support efforts made at the national level in the development of necessary infrastructure to provide rapid, equitable and affordable access to the Internet and ICT for women.

C.	Recommendations to UNCTAD

14.	UNCTAD should:

(a)	Mainstream gender in all areas of work, as appropriate. In doing so, a focal point on gender should be identified in each division of UNCTAD, with the responsibility to integrate the gender dimension in all substantive areas of the division, without prejudice to the work of the overall coordination of the focal point on women designated by the Secretary-General;

(b)	Review its capacity-building programmes, particularly EMPRETEC and MED 2000, so that they are gender-sensitive and can effectively provide training and advice to improve women entrepreneurs’ access to finance, e-finance and e-commerce;

(c)	In cooperation with the International Telecommunication Union (ITU): 
      
(i)	Carry out analytical and case-study-based work on gender and ICT, identifying the specific opportunities in the digital economy for women;

(ii)	Develop sex-disaggregated indicators and contribute to the collection of data on ICT and the telecommunications sector in order to identify the impact of ICT on women and women’s impact on ICT;

(iii)	Identify policies for mainstreaming gender in national ICT policy making, including the telecommunications sector, with a view to enhancing the participation of women in the digital economy and thus contributing towards increasing the competitiveness of developing countries;

(iv)	Develop recommendations on mainstreaming gender in ICT policy for inclusion in the outcome of the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS), to be held in Geneva in 2003 and in Tunisia in 2005.
? 	As adopted at the closing plenary of the Commission on Thursday, 21 February 2002.

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

TD/B/COM.3/L.22
Page 4



	TD/B/COM.3/L.22
	Page 3









GE.02-50411

