UNITED 
NATIONSE

Economic and Social Council
Distr.
GENERAL 

TRADE/WP.8/2004/8
17 November 2004

Original: ENGLISH 
ECONOMIC COMMISSION FOR EUROPE
COMMITTEE FOR TRADE, INDUSTRY AND
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT

Working Party on Industry and Enterprise Development
Fifth session, 12 and 13 February 2004
Sub-item 4.3.2 of the provisional agenda



TEAM OF SPECIALISTS ON WOMEN’S ENTREPRENEURSHIP

Progress Report


1.	At its second session on 21-22 March 2001, the Working Party on Industry and Enterprise Development (WP.8) established a new Team of Specialists on Women’s Entrepreneurship. At its first meeting, held on 12 and 15 February 2002, the Team of Specialists (TOS) on Women’s Entrepreneurship elected its officials and adopted Terms of Reference and a work plan for 2002-2003 (OPA/2002/NONE/3). At its third session in February 2002, the Working Party approved the Mandate of the Team (OPA.2002.NONE.1). 

2.	On 19 March 2003, the TOS organized its third meeting and elected its officials for the period ending in February 2004. The meeting agreed to: 

-	include the organization of a sub-regional Round Table on “Women Entrepreneurs in a wider Europe” (November 2003, Warsaw) in the work plan for 2003;
- start preparations for the sub-regional Forums of Women Entrepreneurs in Turkey and in Central Asia;
- prepare inputs for the UNECE publication “Access to Financing and ICT for Women Entrepreneurs”;
- explore the possibility of publishing the profiles from the UNECE Gallery of Excellent Women Entrepreneurs;
- prepare a background paper that will take stock of the existing methodologies and data related to women’s entrepreneurship by sub-regions.

GE.03-32632
In order to implement these objectives it was agreed to establish a number of task forces (initiative or thematic groups), in particular four regional task forces for Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, Central Asia and South Caucasus, and two thematic task forces (training, and data and statistics).  

3.	During the reporting period, the TOS contributed to the organization of the Second Forum on Women Entrepreneurs, which was held in March 2003.  The Second Forum was attended by over 250 participants from 38 countries. This event ended with giving awards to the “Excellent Women Entrepreneurs of the Year 2002” where the winners in six categories were announced. The Forum was accompanied by an exhibition, informal networking sessions, and a meeting of the Presidents of Women’s Business Associations.

4.	On the basis of papers presented at the Forum and inputs from the TOS members, the secretariat is now preparing the second publication on Women Entrepreneurship dedicated to Best Practices in Financing for Women Entrepreneurs and Access to ICT.

5.	As a part of the Central European Initiative’s 6th Summit Economic Forum (19-21 November 2003, Warsaw, Poland) organized in cooperation with the Polish Ministry of Economy, Labour and Social Policy, the secretariat organized sessions on “Women Entrepreneurship in a wider Europe”. They discussed strategies and concrete projects for promoting women’s entrepreneurship at both national and regional levels during and after the accession process.  

6.	The Regional Assessment of Data Availability on ICTs and Gender was prepared by the TOS’s Task Force on Data and Statistics in collaboration with the UNECE Statistical Division. The replies to the UNECE questionnaire from the national statistical offices revealed the existing gaps in data availability on ICT and gender within the ECE region, and in particular a lack of data on women’s ICT use.1     

7.	The Task Force on Training and Human Resources prepared an evaluation of women entrepreneurs’ training needs, focusing specifically on ECE member countries that are also members of the Central European Initiative.  Training courses will be developed on the basis of this evaluation. A special note on this work will be presented to the fifth session of the Working Party.

8.	The draft work programme of the TOS for 2003-2004 is presented in the attached annex.  Detailed information on the work of the Team of Specialists is available at the UNECE WWW site at the following address:  http://www.unece.org/ie/enterp/women/team.htm

9.	The Working Party may wish to extend the mandate of the Team of Specialists on Women’s Entrepreneurship for one more year. 













Annex 

PROGRAMME OF WORK
TEAM OF SPECIALISTS ON WOMEN’S ENTREPRENEURSHIP
2003 - 2004


Date

Event/ Project
Organizer/Project Leader21 November 2003 Round Table «Women entrepreneurs in a Wider Europe» at the CEI Economic Forum, Warsaw, Poland TOS Secretary in cooperation with TOS officials and sub-regional group on Belarus and Ukraine (O. Apatenko / G. Pidkamina / L. Bernadina) and Russia21 November 2003Fourth meeting of TOS, Warsaw, Poland
  TOS Secretary and TOS officialsApril 2003 – December 2004Organisation of Sub-regional Forum on Women Entrepreneurs in Turkey and in central AsiaTOS Secretary in cooperation with host Government and TOS membersSeptember 2003 March 2004Publication “Access to financing and ICT for women entrepreneurs” in the series Women Entrepreneurs in the ECE Region
TOS Secretary April 2003-February 2004Background review of the existing methodologies and data related to women’s entrepreneurship by sub-regions; contacts with national statistical offices; work of expertsMs. Hrund Gunnsteinsdottir (UNECE), UNECE working Group on Gender Statistics, TOS members in cooperation with TOS Secretary April 2003-February 20041) Analysis of Training Needs and Capacity (TNCA) in selected sub-regions
2) Development of training activities based on results of TNCA and the experiences of the CEI training course (2002) and its follow-up in 2003, in cooperation with CEI and interested GovernmentsInitiative Group on Human resources and training Coordinator: Ms. I. I. Vanore-Speer in cooperation with TOS officials and TOS Secretary 


1 Results of 2003 Questionnaire Inquiry on ICT and Gender Statistics to National Statistical Offices, Human and Sustainable Development Team, UNECE Statistical Division.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

TRADE/WP.8/2004/8
page 2


TRADE/WP.8/2004/8
page 3


