
 United Nations  A/65/576

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
16 November 2010 
 
Original: English 

 

10-64111 (E)    261110 
*1064111*   

Sixty-fifth session 
Agenda items 129 and 143 
 

Programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011 
 

Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing 
of the United Nations peacekeeping operations 

 
 
 

  Information and communications technology 
 
 

  Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions 
 
 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has 
considered the following reports of the Secretary-General relating to information 
and communications technology: 

 (a) Second progress report on the enterprise resource planning project and 
revised estimates under section 28A, Office of the Under-Secretary-General for 
Management, of the programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011, and under the 
support account for peacekeeping operations (A/65/389); 

 (b) Status of implementation of the information and communications 
technology strategy for the United Nations Secretariat (A/65/491). 

2. During its consideration of the reports, the Advisory Committee met with the 
Under-Secretary-General for Management and the Chief Information Technology 
Officer, as well as with other representatives of the Secretary-General, who 
provided additional information and clarification. 
 
 

 II. Enterprise resource planning project 
 
 

3. The second progress report of the Secretary-General has been submitted 
pursuant to General Assembly resolution 64/243, in which the Secretary-General 
was requested to continue to ensure that the Assembly is kept informed, on an 
annual basis, of the progress of the enterprise resource planning project.  



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 2 
 

4. Background information on the rationale, evolution and funding of the project 
is set out in paragraphs 1 to 6 of the Secretary-General’s report. In brief, as part of 
the management reforms1 launched in response to the World Summit Outcome (see 
General Assembly resolutions 60/1 and 60/283), the General Assembly decided to 
replace the Integrated Management Information System (IMIS) with next-generation 
enterprise resource planning. On the basis of the proposals put forward by the 
Secretary-General in his report on enterprise systems for the United Nations 
Secretariat worldwide (A/62/510/Rev.1), the General Assembly decided, by its 
resolution 63/262, to implement a global enterprise resource planning solution, 
stressing that such a solution should aim to consolidate the management of all 
financial, human and physical resources under a single, integrated information 
system for the entire Organization, including for peacekeeping and field missions. 
In the same resolution, the Assembly authorized the Secretary-General to establish a 
multi-year special account to record income and expenditures for the project, and 
approved the proposed governance framework of the project. The Assembly also 
emphasized that the enterprise resource planning project should be viewed primarily 
as a business project driven by business process demands and delivered through 
complex information technology systems requiring a high level of technical 
expertise.  

5. The United Nations enterprise resource planning project, named “Umoja”, was 
initially envisaged to be implemented in two waves: the first consisting of a 
30-month period for the implementation of the core finance, human resources, 
procurement and asset management functions required for compliance with the 
International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS); and the second 
consisting of a 24-month period for the implementation of the remaining 
functionalities, such as results-based management, risk management, and 
transportation and travel. Subsequently, in his first progress report on the enterprise 
resource planning project (A/64/380), the Secretary-General proposed instead a 
“pilot first” option, in which the complete enterprise resource planning solution, 
with all functionalities, would be developed and deployed in a small-scale, fully 
operational and contained environment, towards the end of 2011. The solution 
would be tested and stabilized in the pilot environment and then deployed to the rest 
of the Organization in two phases, to be completed by the third quarter of 2013. The 
Secretary-General affirmed that costs could be best contained and the risks 
mitigated under such an implementation strategy. The overall resource requirements 
for the implementation of the enterprise resource planning solution through the 
“pilot first” option were estimated at $315.8 million. In the light of the need to 
synchronize the adoption of IPSAS with the introduction of the enterprise resource 
planning system, the projected date for the issuance of the first full set of IPSAS-
compliant financial statements was postponed to the year ending 31 December 2014.  

6. In its resolution 64/243, the General Assembly endorsed the proposal of the 
Secretary-General to deploy the enterprise resource planning project through the 
“pilot first” option and, in that context, requested the Secretary-General to present 
options for lowering the cost of the project. The Assembly also requested the 
Secretary-General to provide information on the resources that could be 
redistributed to the enterprise resource planning project as a result of the merging of 

__________________ 

 1  Including initiatives such as the adoption of the International Public Sector Accounting 
Standards (IPSAS) and strengthened oversight and accountability. 



 A/65/576
 

3 10-64111 
 

any elements of other enterprise systems with the new enterprise resource planning 
system.  
 
 

  Updated benefits 
 
 

7. In his first progress report (A/64/380), the Secretary-General presented a 
business case justifying the investment in enterprise resource planning and the 
advantages to be expected in terms of increased operational effectiveness and 
timeliness; higher client satisfaction; improved reporting; strengthened accountability, 
enhanced transparency and strengthened internal controls across the broad range of 
financial, procurement and staffing processes; and improved consistency in the 
application of rules and operating procedures in all administrative disciplines. The 
expected quantitative benefits after full implementation of the enterprise resource 
planning system were estimated at between $134 and $224 million per annum. In his 
current report (A/65/389), the Secretary-General has refined his analysis of the 
estimates of quantitative benefits on the basis of information gained during the 
detailed design and re-engineering of business processes. Table 1 of the report 
provides a summary of the updated quantitative benefits expected by functional 
area, showing a new range of between $141.3 and $222.6 million, reflecting a minor 
net variation as compared to the original estimates: a downward revision of the 
range of estimated benefits under supply chain/procurement/logistics is largely 
offset by higher estimated benefits in the other functional areas. Details of the 
specific benefits underpinning the updated estimates are presented in annex I to the 
Secretary-General’s report. Annex II provides an update of the qualitative benefits 
expected by functional area, which are mostly related to greater effectiveness as a 
result of the availability of reliable, integrated and consolidated Organization-wide 
data, allowing improved reporting, monitoring, real-time analysis and decision-
making. 

8. In paragraphs 11 to 16 of his report, the Secretary-General discusses issues 
that have an impact on the calculation, identification and realization of the above-
mentioned benefits. He emphasizes that the estimated ranges for the quantitative 
benefits were established on the basis of a series of assumptions which will have to 
be validated in an operational environment as well as on the basis of existing data, 
which may not be reliable owing to weaknesses in the current information and 
communication technology (ICT) systems. He points out that the benefits are 
expected to be realized only after full implementation and stabilization of the 
system and that, at the current stage, his estimates represent only potential benefits 
that should not be projected as savings in future budgets. The Secretary-General 
goes on to cite a number of conditions necessary for the effective realization of 
those benefits, namely: (a) that the active support of all stakeholders will be 
sustained, including strong political and financial backing from Member States, 
leadership by senior United Nations officials to ensure that the project receives the 
required level of support and participation, and the willingness of all managers and 
staff to embrace improved working methods; (b) that the project team will be able to 
mitigate risks over the life cycle of the project; and (c) that the project team is able 
to engage the entire Organization to create a shared vision and to ensure that 
knowledge is effectively transferred from specialist external resources to the United 
Nations staff.  



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 4 
 

9. The Advisory Committee recognizes that the identification of benefits is an 
ongoing process and that factors such at those outlined in paragraph 8 above 
will have an impact on the estimates of the quantitative benefits and the 
conditions for their realization throughout the implementation of the project. It 
believes that sustained and long-term commitment, as well as constant 
monitoring and management of the risks and issues discussed above, will be 
vital if a sound enterprise resource planning solution aligned to the business 
needs of users is to be put into place and the necessary conditions are to be 
created for Organization-wide acceptance and realization of the benefits of the 
new system.  

10. In paragraphs 17 to 24 of his report, the Secretary-General mentions the 
possibility of benefits being derived from changes in the approach to service 
delivery, but does not elaborate on those changes or make any specific proposals. 
The Advisory Committee will comment on this matter should the Secretary-
General put forward any formal proposal, supported by a full cost-benefit 
analysis. 
 

  Progress to date and overall status of the project 
 

11. In his report, the Secretary-General states that he expects the project to be 
completed and deployed within the projected time frame, by the end of 2013. The 
overall resource requirements also remain unchanged at $315.8 million.  
 

  Project activities 
 

12. The Advisory Committee notes that, as requested in its previous report 
(A/64/7/Add.9, para. 72) the Secretary-General has provided, in figure II of his 
report, a detailed and annotated timeline for the project, as well as the required 
resources by phase. The project timeline is divided into four major phases, namely, 
prepare (2009), design (2009-2010), build (2009-2011) and deploy (2012-2013). 
The figure shows the key milestones and targets of each phase in the area of project 
governance and legislative decision-making, as well as those relating to functional, 
technical and change management tasks. Ongoing project management tasks are also 
shown, including day-to-day management, oversight and quality control, 
procurement and contract management, and recruitment. Figure II also shows the 
tasks that are carried out in parallel, including those concerning the different phases 
of the project. The Advisory Committee welcomes the provision of a more 
detailed timeline for the project. It is of the view that information on the main 
dependencies between key tasks should also be shown in the figure or provided 
in the related notes, to facilitate the identification of critical implementation 
activities.  

13. The Advisory Committee was informed that the main focus of the enterprise 
resource planning project team during the reporting period was on the design phase. 
The key activities reported by the Secretary-General in the areas of procurement, 
functional design, technical preparation and change management are as follows:  

 • Procurement and contract management. In the summary section of his report, 
the Secretary-General indicates that the protracted negotiations to procure the 
preferred enterprise software package constituted one of the main challenges 
faced by the project team and caused some delays. The Committee was 
informed that the contract with the enterprise software vendor was concluded 



 A/65/576
 

5 10-64111 
 

on 25 June 2010. It notes from figure II that the systems integration services 
contract has been divided into two parts, the first for the design phase of the 
project, which was signed towards the end of 2009, and the second for the 
build and implementation phases, which is planned to be concluded later in 
2010. 

 • Functional design. Progress in this area is outlined in paragraphs 28 to 30 of 
the Secretary-General’s report. The Committee notes that functional design 
covers initial and detailed design, during which business processes are 
identified and re-engineered independently of the enterprise resource planning 
software package. Detailed design is followed by final design, to produce a 
blueprint based on the specific enterprise resource planning software to be 
used for the “build” phase, during which the solution is tailored to the 
Organization’s requirements. The Secretary-General indicates that the detailed 
design phase is nearing completion and that final design was initiated in July 
2010, after the signing of the contract with the software vendor. Upon enquiry, 
the Committee was informed that some 272 business processes had been 
identified in the four functional areas of the enterprise resource planning 
project (human resources management, finance, supply chain and central 
support services), of which 235 have been re-engineered and 37 are in 
progress, mainly in the finance functional area. The Committee notes that an 
internal review was conducted to ensure the completeness, consistency and 
harmonization of business processes across functional areas, and to identify 
the policies, procedures, rules and regulations that require updating to 
optimize the solution. The proposed re-engineered processes are currently 
being reviewed by the business community, whose support and approval is 
necessary. 

 • Technical tasks. The Secretary-General indicates that technical tasks are 
progressing in parallel to work on the design phase (A/65/389, para. 31). 
Figure II shows that the technical preparatory phase was completed in mid-
2010, including activities such as the provision of support to the software 
purchase process and preparation for the decommissioning of existing systems. 
Technical activities relating to the design phase, such as data conversion, 
security, infrastructure, technical architecture, quality assurance and the setting 
up of operational and development environments are ongoing.  

 • Change management. Key activities undertaken in connection with 
preparations for upcoming enterprise resource planning-related changes, 
communications and training are outlined in paragraphs 32 to 42 of the 
Secretary-General’s report. They include the establishment of communities of 
practice using online information-sharing tools (Umoja net), the designation of 
focal points as Umoja leaders in the field and the establishment of a change 
management presence in Geneva. 

14. In section IV of his report, entitled “‘Cross-cutting’ issues and opportunities” 
(A/65/389, paras. 57-73), the Secretary-General provides information on the 
linkages and interrelationships between the enterprise resource planning project and 
other management reform initiatives in the areas of administration, accountability, 
finance, human resources, harmonization of business practices and ICT, as well as 
certain initiatives of the Department of Field Support. The Advisory Committee 
notes that the enterprise resource planning team participates in these ongoing reform 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 6 
 

initiatives with a view to integrating their requirements into the enterprise resource 
planning solution, as well to identify opportunities for improving existing policies 
and making the best possible use of the enterprise resource planning solution. For 
instance, as regards accountability, the enterprise resource planning solution will 
provide a basis for the accountability framework through detailed electronic 
recording of transactions and approvals, and support the requirements for reviewed 
delegation of authority mechanisms, enterprise risk management and a strengthened 
internal control framework. The Committee also notes that the enterprise resource 
planning system will support performance reporting and results-based management, 
once a standardized methodology is adopted.  

15. In his current progress report, the Secretary-General has identified a number of 
developments which have emerged or become apparent as the project has progressed 
and have led to adjustments to project staffing and design. They include new 
opportunities for better use of the new solution, instances of areas where policy 
frameworks need to be established or adapted before requirements can be finalized, 
as well as gaps in the initial project structure. Such adjustments are to be expected 
in the context of large, complex projects such as Umoja that are implemented over a 
long period. At the same time, the Committee continues to believe that it is 
necessary to establish a clear baseline of the key parameters of the project at the 
time of project approval and to document the changes as the project evolves. Among 
the key parameters to be documented are: goals and objectives of the project, its 
geographical and functional scope, key milestones and deliverables, project risks, 
assumptions and constraints, and out of scope functions, as well as project 
governance and management structure, staffing, cost estimates and funding. In the 
Committee’s view such an approach is an integral part of the change management 
process and will facilitate decision-making in the future.  

16. With regard to organizational arrangements (A/65/389, paras. 46-52), 
including governance and oversight, the Advisory Committee notes that an updated 
chart of the governance framework is provided as annex III to the Secretary-
General’s report. The Secretary-General states that the Director of the enterprise 
resource planning project is well supported by the governance structure, which 
affords him direct access to the heads of the major service providers as well as his 
two reporting officers, namely the Under-Secretary-General for Management (Chair 
of the Steering Committee) and the Assistant Secretary-General/Chief Information 
Technology Officer. The Advisory Committee notes that the Project Steering 
Committee continues to provide guidance and advice to the Chair, and that its 
membership was expanded to include the Department for General Assembly and 
Conference Management. The Committee further notes that the project’s progress 
continues to be monitored by the Management Committee, whose involvement will 
become more critical as the initiative moves forward and decisions within the 
purview of the Management Committee must be taken. The Secretary-General 
should continue to provide oversight and close monitoring of the project.  

17. The Advisory Committee welcomes the progress made thus far towards 
completion of the design phase of the project. 
 

  Project staffing 
 

18. In his report, the Secretary-General provides an update on project staffing 
(paras. 53-56) as well as updated requirements for the current biennium to address 



 A/65/576
 

7 10-64111 
 

gaps in the enterprise resource planning project team structure (paras. 78-88). He 
states that timely recruitment has been a challenge and represents a significant 
project risk factor. Only 46 of the 80 positions/posts approved for the project were 
filled at the end of August 2010, reflecting a vacancy rate of 42.5 per cent. The 
distribution of vacant posts is summarized in table 3 of the Secretary-General’s 
report.  

19. The Secretary-General also indicates that post and non-post resources of the 
Management Support Service of the Office of the Under-Secretary-General for 
Management have been temporarily assigned to the change management team for 
the duration of the project, effectively augmenting the project team by a total of six 
posts: four regular budget posts (1 D-1, 1 P-5, 1 P-2 and 1 GS (OL)) and two P-4 
support account posts (para. 56).  

20. In addition, in order to address gaps identified in the enterprise resource 
planning project team structure during the design phase, the Secretary-General is 
proposing the establishment of an additional 10 temporary posts to be funded 
through the redeployment of resources from contractual services to posts (paras. 83, 
88 and 89). The specific proposals are as follows:  

 • Establishment of a cross-functional programme and project management team 
comprising 8 temporary posts (one D-1 Programme Management Team Leader, 
two P-5 Senior Programme Management Analysts, three P-4 Functional 
Programme Management Experts, one P-3 Information Systems Analyst, and 
one General Service (Other level) Programme Assistant) (paras. 85-88). The 
programme and project management team would work across the four 
functional teams (finance, human resources, supply chain, and central support 
services) to ensure that the enterprise resource planning solution supports more 
efficient and consistent programme and project delivery throughout the 
Secretariat, including results-based management and performance reporting. 
The Secretary-General indicates that the design phase demonstrated that the 
specialized functional teams could not address such issues in a holistic manner. 

 • Establishment of a project delivery team in the project management office, 
comprising two temporary posts (one D-1 Delivery Manager and one P-5 
Deputy Delivery Manager) (paras. 82-84). The Delivery Team would be 
responsible for activities such as project management, team coordination and 
the supervision of contractual services, which are currently outsourced to the 
systems integrator. The Secretary-General indicates that it is necessary to 
perform these activities in-house to minimize risks and ensure that the 
Organization is deriving maximum benefits from its service providers. 

 • Proposed resources under contractual services would be decreased by 
$1,739,600 to accommodate post costs related to the establishment of the 
above-mentioned 10 new temporary posts (para. 89). 

21. The Secretary-General is also proposing the conversion of 36 positions 
currently funded under general temporary assistance to temporary posts. He 
indicates that these positions were previously requested as new temporary posts in 
the first progress report (see A/64/380, para. 94), but that there was no explicit 
approval by the General Assembly for establishing them as such (A/65/389, 
para. 78). The Advisory Committee was informed that the conversion is being 
proposed in order to facilitate recruitment and the filling of vacant positions. As a 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 8 
 

result of these proposals, the total staffing for the project would increase from 80 to 
90 temporary posts. Taking into account the additional resources redeployed from 
the Office of the Under-Secretary-General for Management (see para. 19 above), the 
total capacity of the project team would increase to 96.  

22. In the Advisory Committee’s view, the Organization’s inability to fully 
staff the project team is a matter of concern, since the delays in filling vacancies 
entail risks that project activities may not be accomplished on time, owing to 
insufficient staff capacity. The Committee is particularly concerned by the high 
level of vacancies among the Professional staff in the enterprise resource 
planning project technical and functional teams, where proper planning and 
coordination capacity, and strong analytical skills are critical to drive progress. 
The Committee urges the Secretary-General to make every effort to fill the 
enterprise resource planning project team vacancies as a matter of priority and 
to explore every possibility to expedite the process, so as to minimize any 
adverse impact on project implementation. 

23. With regard to the establishment of the additional project teams, the 
Advisory Committee believes that it is necessary to put into place mechanisms 
for strengthening in-house capacity and for the transfer of knowledge from 
consultants to programme and project staff. Accordingly, the Committee 
recommends approval of the Secretary-General’s proposals.  
 

  Subject matter experts 
 

24. As indicated in paragraph 55 of the Secretary-General’s report, the enterprise 
resource planning project team is supplemented by subject matter experts, whose 
contributions range from a few hours to several months at a time. In his first 
progress report (A/64/380), the Secretary-General specified that subject matter 
experts were staff members recognized as leading practitioners in specific areas of 
the Organization. At the time of its consideration of the first progress report, the 
Advisory Committee was informed that subject matter experts were required to 
assist, on a temporary basis, in system design, data conversion, interface 
development, report generation and testing of the enterprise resource planning 
system, and would also have a key role to play in training and supporting users 
during deployment and in the post-deployment period. At that time, the Secretary-
General also emphasized that the active participation of subject matter experts, who 
have an in-depth knowledge of their functional areas and the business requirements 
of their departments/offices, was essential to ensure that the enterprise resource 
planning system would effectively cover the required functionalities and would be 
accepted by the business owners2 and the Organization (A/64/7/Add.9, para. 82). 

25. The Advisory Committee enquired as to the procedures in effect for bringing 
subject matter experts on board and whether there had been any changes in practice 
in this regard since the initiation of the project. It was informed that, owing to the 
lack of sufficient candidates to provide the large number of subject matter experts 
required for the project, and with a view to ensuring that the selection process for 
subject matter experts is transparent and consistent with established provisions for 

__________________ 

 2  The Under-Secretary-General, Department of Field Support, and the Assistant Secretary-General 
of the Office of Human Resources Management, the Office of Central Support Services, the 
Office of Programme Planning, Budget and Accounts and the Department for General Assembly 
and Conference Management. 



 A/65/576
 

9 10-64111 
 

staff selection, an expedited competitive process for the selection of subject matter 
experts for the four functional areas (human resources, finance, central support and 
supply chain) had been introduced, with effect from October 2010. The process 
involved the preparation of temporary vacancy announcements by the Team Leader, 
joint evaluation of applicants by members of the enterprise resource planning 
project team and the business owners, and the establishment a roster of suitable 
candidates. The release of candidates is arranged by the Executive Office of the 
Department of Management following approval by the Under-Secretary-General for 
Management. In addition, the movement of subject matter experts is 
administratively recorded for mobility purposes. The competitive process is not 
applicable to subject matter experts for specialized functions available only within a 
particular department/office, such as investment management. A description of the 
procedure, provided to the Committee, is contained in annex I.  

26. The Advisory Committee shares the Secretary-General’s view that subject 
matter experts have an important role to play in the design and other phases of 
the project, since their inputs shape the re-engineered business processes and 
the new enterprise resource planning solution to be implemented across the 
Organization worldwide. The participation of subject matter experts is also 
required to provide the necessary assurances that the enterprise resource 
planning system covers the required functionalities and can be accepted by the 
users. As indicated in paragraph 8 above, this is a critical factor for the 
successful implementation of the enterprise resource planning project and the 
realization of its benefits (see also para. 30 below). It is therefore essential that, 
as indicated above, the subject matter experts selected to contribute to the 
enterprise resource planning project possess the required expertise and are 
made available in accordance with the constraints of the timetable of the 
project.  

27. Given the short-term and time-sensitive nature of the requirements for the 
temporary placement of the subject matter experts in the enterprise resource 
planning project teams, as well as the risks to the project should the required 
expertise not be available when needed, the Committee stresses the requirement 
for efficient and speedy procedures for the selection of subject matter experts, 
avoiding needlessly bureaucratic and time-consuming efforts which would 
inevitably divert efforts from productive project tasks to recruitment and other 
ancillary administrative activities. 
 

  Status of expenditure 
 

28. In his report, the Secretary-General provides summaries of approved resources 
and actual expenditure for the previous biennium and for the current biennium as at 
31 August 2010, by source of funds (table 5) and object of expenditure (table 6). 
The Advisory Committee notes that project resources approved for the biennium 
2010-2011 total $82.0 million. As at 31 August 2010, actual expenditure amounted 
to $50.5 million. Upon enquiry, the Committee was provided with an update on 
expenditure for 2010-2011 as at the end of September 2010, showing a slight 
increase in expenditure to $50.7 million. The Committee was informed that the 
Secretary-General expects to fully utilize the resources provided for 2010-2011. 
 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 10 
 

  Customization and extensions to the enterprise resource planning system 
 

29. In paragraph 44 of his report, the Secretary-General indicates that no essential 
customizations to the core software code of the enterprise resource planning system 
have yet been identified, taking into account the processes analysed and the 
requirements reviewed thus far, and on the assumption that the Organization will be 
able to adapt to new working methods. The Secretary-General advanced similar 
caveats with respect to the realization of benefits (see para. 8 above). The Advisory 
Committee trusts that every effort is being made to create the conditions that 
will facilitate adaptation to change and improved methods of work 
Organization-wide. It emphasizes that the sustained commitment of the 
Secretary-General, the Management Committee and the Project Steering 
Committee will be required to achieve this. 

30. The Secretary-General also indicates that the enterprise resource planning 
solution can be supplemented with external programmes, or “extensions”, to provide 
additional functions which can be “plugged in” or “bolted on” to the enterprise 
resource planning system without changing the core software of the system. Such 
extensions would not affect future software upgrades and would be less costly to 
maintain than customizations. The Secretary-General has identified two significant 
extensions that may be required and which are explained in the footnotes to 
paragraph 44 of the report: (a) a parallel ledger, to cope with the United Nations 
dual budgetary cycles and (b) a solution for the requirements of the United Nations 
in material tracking. The Advisory Committee takes note of these alternative 
approaches with interest. It recommends that the Secretary-General be 
requested to provide, in the context of the next progress report, further details 
of the related requirements and constraints, including any interfaces to be 
developed between such extensions and the core enterprise resource planning 
system, along with an update on any further extensions that may be required. 
 

  Interfaces with other systems/existing systems 
 

31. The Secretary-General indicates that a comprehensive cataloguing of existing 
applications is being carried out in cooperation with the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology and the Information and Communications Technology 
Division of the Department of Field Support (A/65/389, para. 43). It is estimated 
that some 690 systems could be replaced by the enterprise resource planning system 
while approximately 200 systems will have to be interfaced with it. In this 
connection, the Committee recalls that, in its resolution 64/243 the General 
Assembly requested the Secretary-General to provide information on the resources 
that could be redistributed to the enterprise resource planning project as a result of 
the merging of other systems with the enterprise resource planning system (see also 
para. 6 above). The Committee notes that the Secretary-General has not yet provided 
a response to the General Assembly’s request. 

32. The Advisory Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be 
requested to pursue his analysis of the systems that could be replaced by the 
enterprise resource planning system and to provide a definitive inventory of the 
systems to be decommissioned, as well as information on the resources that 
could potentially be released, in the context of the next progress report. It 
emphasizes that the enterprise resource planning team should work in close 
cooperation with the Office of Information and Communications Technology to 



 A/65/576
 

11 10-64111 
 

complete the cataloguing exercise and to establish such an inventory. The 
Committee is of the view that the activities related to the planning of 
decommissioning activities should be coordinated by the Office of Information 
and Communications Technology, in the context of the projects arising from the 
outcome of the structural review of ICT capacities (see para. 41 below).  

33. A list of some of the key systems to be interfaced is provided in footnote 19 of 
the Secretary-General’s report and includes internal systems such as Inspira and the 
Enterprise Identity Management System, as well as the external systems of the 
United Nations Development Programme (Atlas), the International Civil Service 
Commission and the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund. The Secretary-
General indicates that generic solutions for standardized interfaces will be applied 
to the extent possible, allowing reduced development and support costs.  

34. The Advisory Committee requested additional information on the interfaces to 
be developed between the enterprise resource planning and other systems that could 
not use generic solutions. It was provided with, by way of an example, the following 
details on interfaces to be established between the enterprise resource planning 
system and Inspira:  

 • The enterprise resource planning software (SAP) must be interfaced with 
Inspira (PeopleSoft) across five different modules or functions: external 
recruitment, internal recruitment, performance management, learning and 
position management. Information will have to be transferred both from 
Inspira to the enterprise resource planning system and vice versa, with the 
development of inward and outbound interfaces. 

 • Resource requirements for the development of interfaces for the first three 
modules are estimated at an initial cost of $500,000 with ongoing costs of up 
to two full-time equivalent positions for the maintenance of the interfaces. 

 • The costs for the development of interfaces for the learning and position 
management modules have not yet been determined, pending further 
development of Inspira and analysis of requirements. The Secretary-General 
estimates that the costs of the remaining two interfaces are likely to be similar 
to the estimates for the first three modules. 

35. The example described above demonstrates the complexity of the interfaces 
envisaged to be established between the enterprise resource planning system and 
Inspira, which will be costly to develop and maintain. The Advisory Committee 
emphasizes the need to maximize coverage of the required functionalities 
within the enterprise resource planning system itself, so as to limit, to the extent 
possible, the requirements for the development and maintenance of interfaces. 
It notes the Secretary-General’s intention to apply generic solutions for 
standardized interfaces wherever possible. The Committee recommends that 
the Secretary-General be requested to report comprehensively on the systems 
to be interfaced with the enterprise resource planning system, as well as the 
different interface models to be put in place, in the context of the next progress 
report.  

36. In this connection, the Advisory Committee was also informed that it has not 
yet been determined whether Inspira or the enterprise resource planning system 
would be the primary system for the position management function. The 
Committee emphasizes that the enterprise resource planning system should be 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 12 
 

viewed as the central Organization-wide system of record and the authoritative 
data source for all key data related to the management of human, financial and 
physical resources.  
 

  Estimated future operating costs 
 

37. In its previous report on this subject (A/64/7/Add.9, para. 87), the Advisory 
Committee expressed the view that an estimate of future operating costs was an 
essential input for making an informed decision on the implementation of enterprise 
resource planning, and requested that this information be provided to the General 
Assembly. The Secretary-General estimates that the future operating costs of the 
enterprise resource planning will range between $40 and $50 million per annum, on 
average (A/65/389, para. 94). He specifies that this amount would cover a range of 
core costs related to hardware and software requirements, functional and technical 
support, hosting services, future upgrades and improvements, and other standard 
costs. He further indicates that other costs, such as telecommunications costs cannot 
be calculated at this point, in light of the fact that the requirements are dependent on 
the sequence of the deployment of the enterprise resource planning system to the 
various sites, as well as the service delivery model (see also para. 10 above). The 
Advisory Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be requested to 
continue to refine these estimates as the modalities of the deployment of the 
enterprise resource planning system are determined and other cost factors are 
clarified, and to provide updated estimates in future progress reports. 
 

  Future downsizing of the project team 
 

38. The Secretary-General indicates that once the system is deployed in 2013, 
Umoja will cease to exist as an independently funded project, and that the resources 
required for supporting and maintaining the enterprise resource planning system will 
be provided for in the context of operational budgets. The Advisory Committee 
notes that, after the project is completed, the enterprise resource planning 
system will be supported under the resource management programme of the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology. It is therefore 
important, to plan for the effective transfer to the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology of knowledge and expertise relating to both the 
technical environment and the functional areas of the enterprise resource 
planning system (see also para. 43 below). 
 

  Options for lowering the cost of the project  
 

39. In its resolution 64/243, the General Assembly endorsed the proposal of the 
Secretary-General to deploy the enterprise resource planning system through the 
“pilot first” option and, in that context, requested the Secretary-General to present 
options for lowering the cost of the project (see also para. 6 above). The Secretary-
General has not proposed any such options, but has instead presented a variety of 
measures to contain costs, in paragraphs 98 to 107 of his report. During its 
discussions with the representatives of the Secretary-General, the Advisory 
Committee was informed that it was not possible to make significant cuts in the 
project costs without substantially altering the plan and approach for the 
implementation of the enterprise resource planning system that had been approved 
by the General Assembly.  



 A/65/576
 

13 10-64111 
 

40. The Advisory Committee notes the efforts directed towards containment of a 
range of costs and encourages the Secretary-General to maintain focus on the 
optimal use of project resources. It notes in particular the opportunities identified 
during the design phase to partner with sister agencies (A/65/389, para. 104) and the 
ongoing collaboration with the United Nations Children’s Fund and the World Food 
Programme in the design and building of human resource management and travel 
management functionalities. Further opportunities cited include sharing of the costs 
of a turnkey travel management solution for United Nations commercial and 
non-commercial travel flights and movement of personnel, and the provision of 
access to the Entitlements Validation Engine already developed for other United 
Nations entities, which will cover some of the unique requirements of the United 
Nations at substantial savings in terms of resource requirements for software 
development. The Advisory Committee welcomes these developments and 
encourages the Secretary-General to pursue such opportunities vigorously. The 
Committee remains convinced that there are opportunities for the adoption of 
common solutions, procedures and standards among the entities of the United 
Nations system, and encourages the Secretary-General to pay particular 
attention to maximizing exchanges and synergies between the organizations 
regarding their respective ongoing enterprise resource planning initiatives. In 
the view of the Committee, such collaboration could be viewed as a long-term 
option for lowering enterprise resource planning costs in the future. The 
Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be requested to report 
comprehensively on all developments in this area in the context of future 
progress reports.  
 

  Other observations 
 

  Collaboration with the Office of Information and Communications Technology, the 
Department of Field Support and other departments/offices 
 

41. In his report, the Secretary-General refers to numerous technical tasks related 
to enterprise resource planning implementation, including: technical activities 
during the design phase in the area of data conversion, security, infrastructure, 
portal solutions, disaster recovery and analysis of the impact of the enterprise 
resource planning on the network, as well as the establishment of the technical 
infrastructure for the production and development environments (see A/65/385, 
paras. 31 and 105). Other activities accomplished in collaboration with the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology, the Department of Field Support, the 
Department of Management, the Office of Human Resources Management and other 
offices include the review of existing systems to be replaced by the enterprise 
resource planning system, formulation of the policy on electronic signatures and 
integration of the enterprise resource planning project team with other enterprise 
systems (ibid., paras. 31, 43, 68, 69 and 71). 

42. In this connection, the Advisory Committee notes from the organizational 
structure of the project set out in annex IV of the progress report, that the enterprise 
resource planning Technology Management team comprises 18 positions/posts (1 D-1, 
5 P-5, 12 P-4). In his initial proposal for one D-1 and one P-5 position 
(A/62/510/Rev.1, para. 62), the Secretary-General indicated that the functions of the 
two positions included the definition of the enterprise-wide ICT architecture; setting 
technical standards; projecting enterprise-wide enterprise resource planning needs; 
evaluating the suitability of infrastructure operations; identifying gaps between 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 14 
 

existing infrastructure and enterprise resource planning requirements; and providing 
expertise and guidance during the implementation phase. Subsequently, the 
following additional 16 temporary posts were proposed: four P-5 Architect posts for 
solutions, infrastructure, business intelligence/data conversion and user interface, 
and portal and mobile technology; five P-4 Technical Architects to serve as liaison 
for each functional area; and seven P-4 Architect posts for master data management, 
security, reporting, portal solutions and workflow, mobile technology and forms, 
and Web 2.0 solution (A/64/380, para. 96). These proposals were approved by the 
General Assembly in its resolutions 63/252 and 64/243. 

43. The Committee notes that the mandate of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology includes: providing central ICT leadership for the 
Organization; setting Organization-wide standards and policies; planning and 
coordinating Secretariat-wide activities; and providing enterprise systems and 
infrastructure. The Advisory Committee stresses the need to ensure that the 
technical standards of the enterprise resource planning project and those of the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology are aligned. It also 
considers that there may be a need to review and clarify the respective roles 
and responsibilities of the enterprise resource planning Technical Management 
Team and the Office of Information and Communications Technology, as well 
as the Information and Communications Technology Division of the 
Department of Field Support in areas such as the establishment of the technical 
infrastructure of the enterprise resource planning system, the establishment of 
the production and development environments for the enterprise resource 
planning system, the decommissioning of applications and data conversion, 
with a view to ensuring that there is no duplication of efforts or overlap. The 
Committee reiterates the need also to involve the personnel responsible for the 
development/maintenance of the systems to be replaced by or to be interfaced 
with the enterprise resource planning system. The Committee recommends that 
the Secretary-General be requested to provide details on the technical activities 
to be accomplished during all phases of the enterprise resource planning 
project and the respective roles of the enterprise resource planning project 
team and the Office of Information and Communications Technology, as well as 
those of the Information and Communications Technology Division of the 
Department of Field Support, offices away from Headquarters and field 
missions. 
 

  Conclusion 
 

44. The actions to be taken by the General Assembly are set out in paragraph 
113 of the Secretary-General’s report. The Committee recommends that the 
General Assembly approve the Secretary-General’s proposals. 
 
 

 III. Status of implementation of the information and 
communications technology strategy for the 
United Nations Secretariat 
 
 

45. The Secretary-General’s report contained in document A/65/491 has been 
submitted in response to General Assembly resolution 63/262, in which the General 
Assembly decided to establish the Office of Information and Communications 



 A/65/576
 

15 10-64111 
 

Technology, and requested the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly 
at the main part of its sixty-fifth session on his information and communications 
technology strategy and on the efficiency gains or benefits expected from its 
implementation. The Assembly also requested the Secretary-General to report on a 
comprehensive inventory of information and communications technology capacities 
across the Secretariat and to provide an update on the governance and management 
arrangements for the Office. The report also responds to the request of the Assembly 
in resolution 63/269 that the Secretary-General submit to it no later than at the main 
part of its sixty-fifth session a unified approach to disaster recovery and business 
continuity. 

46. Background information on the information and communications technology 
strategy for the United Nations Secretariat and the major milestones in its 
implementation is provided in the summary and paragraphs 1 to 11 of the Secretary-
General’s report.  

47. Recognizing the need to address the state of fragmentation of the information 
and communications technology (ICT) environment, the General Assembly decided 
in resolution 60/283 to establish the post of Chief Information Technology Officer 
to define and implement a comprehensive information management strategy for the 
entire Secretariat. In 2007, the Secretary-General proposed an ICT strategy for the 
Secretariat which would serve as the Organization-wide agreement on the direction 
of ICT over the next three to five years (see A/62/793 and Corr.1). He also proposed 
the establishment of an independent Office of Information and Communications 
Technology, headed by the Chief Information Technology Officer. The Office would 
provide central ICT leadership for the Organization, set Organization-wide 
standards and policies, plan and coordinate Secretariat-wide ICT activities and 
provide enterprise systems and infrastructure for the entire organization (see 
A/62/793/Add.1). In its related report (A/63/487), the Advisory Committee broadly 
agreed with the approach proposed by the Secretary-General, noting that his plan for 
the management of ICT activities in the Secretariat was based on strong central 
leadership for the establishment and implementation of Organization-wide ICT 
standards and activities, along with a decentralized approach to meet the specific 
programmatic and operational requirements of all departments.  

48. By its resolution 63/262, the General Assembly endorsed the conclusions of 
the Advisory Committee as set out in its report (A/63/487). The Assembly 
emphasized the importance of strong, central leadership for the establishment and 
implementation of Organization-wide information and communications technology 
standards and activities in order to ensure efficient utilization of resources, 
modernization of information systems and improvement in the information and 
communications technology services available to the United Nations. The Assembly 
also recognized that the successful integration of central information and 
communications technology functions across the Secretariat was essential to 
achieving coherence and coordination in the work of the Organization and between 
the Secretariat and the funds, programmes and specialized agencies. 
 
 

 A. Status of the implementation of the ICT strategy 
 
 

49. In section II of his report (A/65/491) the Secretary-General provides 
information on the status of the implementation of the ICT strategy, including an 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 16 
 

update on the activities undertaken and progress made in relation to the ICT 
management framework and the three strategic programmes of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology, namely for knowledge management, 
resource management and infrastructure management. The Secretary-General also 
presents a unified approach to disaster recovery and business continuity, and reports 
on United Nations system-wide harmonization efforts.  

50. An overview of the ICT strategy is provided in paragraphs 12 to 18 of the 
Secretary-General’s report. It includes three components: (a) a vision for the future 
setting out the main goals of the ICT strategy; (b) a management framework for 
addressing the five priority areas that need to be significantly improved through the 
ICT strategy, namely ICT management structure, strategic programme delivery, 
service and performance management, global architecture and standards and 
financial control and reporting; and (c) the critical ICT needs, namely, knowledge 
management, resource management and infrastructure management, that must be 
addressed in a coherent manner at the organizational level to ensure that they 
effectively support substantive activities across the Secretariat,  
 

  Status of the ICT management framework 
 

51. Table 1 of the Secretary-General’s report provides a summary of the key 
activities accomplished during 2009 and 2010 and planned for 2011 and 2013 in 
relation to the ICT management framework. Key accomplishments include the 
following: 
 

 (a) Establishment of OICT 
 

 The Office of Information and Communications Technology was established 
with effect from 1 January 2009 as an independent unit, reporting directly to the 
Executive Office of the Secretary-General, through the integration of existing 
resources from the Information Technology Services Division of the Department of 
Management and part of the Information and Communications Technology Division 
of the Department of Field Support, based on a budget- and staff-neutral approach. 
The Secretary-General indicates that clear lines of authority, accountability and the 
division of labour between the Office and the Department of Field Support were 
established (A/65/491, para. 21). 
 

 (b) Establishment of management oversight committees and advisory bodies 
 

 A comprehensive ICT management framework was established in April 2009, 
including the ICT Executive Committee, an ICT advisory group, ICT programme 
working groups and local ICT committees, as well as an ICT management 
coordination group consisting of heads and senior staff of ICT units in departments 
and offices across the Secretariat. The Secretary-General states that simpler and 
more operationally effective structures than those proposed in document A/62/793 
have been established, as recommended by the General Assembly in its resolution 
63/262 (ibid., para. 24). 
 

 (c) Conduct of structural reviews of all ICT units 
 

 A structural review of all the ICT units across the Organization was completed 
(ibid., para. 26; see also section B below). 
 



 A/65/576
 

17 10-64111 
 

 (d) Formulation of the ICT performance management framework 
 

 Measurement standards, benchmarks and reporting systems to track the 
performance of ICT units were developed, and performance management baseline 
and benchmarks were established, with a view to enhancing the delivery of services 
and improving the management of ICT resources (ibid., paras. 27-30). 
 

 (e) Development of the ICT budgetary and portfolio management framework 
 

 A project management framework was established to improve the alignment of 
ICT initiatives with the Organization’s operational objectives. Other accomplishments 
include the technical review of ICT budgets before their submission to the 
Controller; a more rigorous review of ICT investment proposals; and, in conjunction 
with the Office of Programme Planning, Budget and Accounts, adjustment of certain 
budgetary procedures to provide further clarity regarding ICT budgets and 
expenditure; as well as the development of an enterprise tool to support the 
framework (ibid., paras. 31-33). 
 

 (f) Establishment of strategic oversight of ICT activities at the United Nations Logistics 
Base at Brindisi, Italy 
 

 Improved service levels and cost-sharing arrangements for sharing ICT 
facilities at the United Nations Logistics Base were established, in cooperation with 
the Department of Field Support (ibid., para. 36). 
 

 (g) Global architecture and standards 
 

 Information security requirements were integrated into the ICT project 
management framework (ibid., paras. 38-39). 
 

 (h) ICT “fast forward programme”  
 

 The ICT “fast forward programme” was launched by the Office of Information 
and Communications Technology in late 2008. The third round initiatives have been 
selected and the projects are currently under way. Initiatives that have been 
implemented to date include “myUNcalls” for online call management, iSeek global 
Intranet access to United Nations offices in remote locations, a Member States 
portal (deleGATE) and an ICT sustainability initiative (ibid., para. 40). 

52. Concerning the Office of Information and Communications Technology, the 
Secretary-General states that the placement of the Office in the structure of the 
Organization should remain as it is, since this arrangement has worked well. The 
Secretary-General also indicates that existing resources have been redeployed to the 
Strategic Management Service to enable the Office to initiate the strategic, cross-
cutting activities of its new mandate, because resources for that purpose have not 
been fully provided (ibid., paras. 23 and 201; see also para. 100 below). 

53. Given that the placement of the Office in the structure of the Organization 
is still relatively new, the Advisory Committee recommends that the issue be 
kept under review and that the Secretary-General be requested to report on the 
effectiveness of the organizational arrangements in the context of the proposed 
programme budget for 2014-2015. 
 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 18 
 

  Strategic programmes  
 

54. In paragraphs 41 to 59 of his report the Secretary-General provides an update 
on the activities undertaken in relation to the knowledge management, resource 
management and infrastructure management programmes. Tables 2, 3 and 4 
summarize the activities of each of the three programmes, respectively, including 
their goals and objectives, the key activities accomplished during 2009 and 2010 
and the tasks planned for the period 2011-2013. In this connection, the Advisory 
Committee recalls that, in paragraph 126 of its resolution 64/243, the General 
Assembly decided not to appropriate resources for the enterprise content 
management and customer relationship management systems, and requested the 
Secretary-General to submit a fully justified proposal for post and non-post 
resources in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-
2013. 

55. With regard to the knowledge management programme (A/65/491, paras. 42-
46), the Secretary-General provides an update on the key activities and 
accomplishments of the Knowledge Management Service of the Office of Information 
and Communications Technology as well as those of other Secretariat departments/ 
offices. He indicates that the Working Group on Knowledge Management was 
established, with representation from all departments/offices, to develop the 
Organization’s knowledge management direction, policies, standards, guidelines and 
procedures. The Advisory Committee notes that the Working Group has adopted a 
definition of core metadata and is establishing a common content management 
platform for the Organization. The Committee notes that other activities/ 
accomplishments in the knowledge management area include: the formulation of 
guidelines for the digitization of documents and initiation of the capital master plan 
digital asset management project for the Department of Public Information, 
Department of General Assembly and Conference Management and the Office of 
Central Support Services of the Department of Management; the adoption of a 
standard collaboration tool (eRoom); the launching of a portal for Member States 
(deleGATE); the implementation of a web platform for uniform access to statistical 
data (UNdata); the adoption of a standard document management tool; and the 
adoption of a standard enterprise portal tool that was piloted in selected field 
missions. 

56. With regard to the resource management programme (ibid., paras. 47-51), the 
Secretary-General indicates that the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology continued to work closely with other departments and offices that are 
involved in resource management programme efforts throughout the Secretariat, 
including the talent management (Inspira) and enterprise resource planning (Umoja) 
projects. In particular, the Office and other ICT entities Secretariat-wide are 
collaborating with the Umoja team in its ongoing efforts to catalogue and analyse 
existing systems to be replaced by the enterprise resource planning system, which 
complement the ICT structural review initiative. Other key activities/ 
accomplishments in relation to resource management include: the adoption and 
deployment of a tool for enterprise portfolio management; the implementation of the 
first phases of the customer relationship management (iNeed) and enterprise identity 
management projects; and progress in the implementation of a comprehensive 
conference and meetings management system by the Department for General 
Assembly and Conference Management.  



 A/65/576
 

19 10-64111 
 

57. In the area of infrastructure management (ibid., paras. 52-59), the Secretary-
General indicates that much of the focus in 2009 and 2010 was on activities related 
to the capital master plan project at Headquarters, including overseeing 
implementation of new ICT infrastructure in four swing space buildings and three 
additional buildings, as well as the physical relocation of over 6,000 staff. In 
addition, the Information Management Working Group was formalized and a 
business case for the globalization of service desks was developed in the context of 
the ICT structural review. The Secretary-General also reports on progress made on 
other projects including: replacement of the conventional telephone system with 
Internet protocol telephony; “mobile office” for remote access to United Nations 
systems; disaster recovery and business continuity support; and implementation of a 
high-speed network at Headquarters. 

58. The Advisory Committee notes the numerous activities undertaken and 
the progress being made under the three strategic programmes. The Committee 
appreciates the presentation of the information in the summary tables, which 
provide a concise and comprehensive overview of the programmes and their 
activities, and establish a clear baseline from which progress can be assessed in 
future reports. With regard to activities planned for the biennium 2012-2013, 
the Committee expects the Secretary-General to submit fully justified proposals 
for enterprise content management and customer relationship management in 
the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013, as 
requested by the General Assembly in paragraph 126 of its resolution 64/243. 
 

  Unified ICT disaster recovery plan and business continuity approach 
 

59. The Secretary-General presents a unified ICT disaster recovery plan and 
business continuity approach in accordance with General Assembly resolutions 
63/262, section IV, and 63/269 (A/65/491, paras. 60-79). Background information 
on the comprehensive emergency management framework for crisis preparedness 
and response is provided in paragraphs 60 to 62 of the Secretary-General’s report. 
ICT disaster recovery planning and business continuity, as well as crisis 
management and medical emergency planning, will be unified under this 
framework, ensuring a harmonized response of the Organization to crisis events. 
The Secretariat is currently reviewing procedures to be implemented in this regard 
which will be submitted in a separate report for the consideration of the General 
Assembly. The Advisory Committee requested additional information on the 
ongoing activities undertaken by the Department of Field Support to streamline and 
consolidate data centres in field missions, which is contained in annex II to the 
present report. 

60. The Secretary-General also provides information on the disaster recovery 
planning and business continuity measures taken at Headquarters in the context of 
the capital master plan, in particular the migration of the primary data centre from 
the Secretariat Building to the North Lawn Building and the installation of the new 
secondary data centre facility located in Piscataway, New Jersey.  

61. The Secretary-General indicates that, at present, almost every United Nations 
duty station operates a data centre equipped in proportion to its needs and that 
significant expenditures are directed to providing ICT support for disaster recovery 
planning and business continuity operations. The new approach for data centres is 
based on the proposed establishment of two enterprise data centres, one at the 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 20 
 

United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy, and the other at the United Nations 
Support Base at Valencia, Spain. Both centres would be managed and operated by 
the Department of Field Support under the strategic oversight of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology, including a supporting cost-sharing 
arrangement. Under this approach, enterprise data centres would host systems used 
across all Secretariat duty stations that may be accessed by users regardless of their 
location. Data centres at duty stations would host systems that cannot be hosted 
elsewhere and which need to be accessed only by local users. Duty station data 
centres would eventually be downsized, in line with the scale of location-specific 
needs. In his report, the Secretary-General also sets out the rationale for this 
approach and its guiding principles. Figure III depicts the ICT disaster recovery plan 
and business continuity architecture. 

62. The Secretary-General indicates that a significant amount of work is still 
required before implementation of the unified ICT disaster recovery plan and 
business continuity approach can commence. An important activity in this regard is 
the assessment of the intrinsic and time-sensitive value of all the information 
systems to be covered, which determines the level and costs of the required 
protection against failure. The Advisory Committee notes that an inventory of 
systems has been established by the Business Continuity Management Unit of the 
Department of Management. The next steps to be taken include the conduct of a 
business impact analysis by the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology and the Business Continuity Management Unit to identify and prioritize 
critical systems, and an assessment of the costs associated with the preservation and 
recovery of each system. 

63. The Advisory Committee enquired as to the cost implications of the envisaged 
use of the United Nations Service Base at Valencia as a secondary enterprise data 
centre. It was informed that the facility is already fitted to operate as a 
communications hub and to host computing and storage equipment, at no cost to the 
Organization. The additional resource requirements related to the enterprise data 
centre concern the costs of servers and storage equipment for the enterprise resource 
planning solution, which would have to be procured regardless of the location in 
which the enterprise data centre is established. 
 

  United Nations system-wide harmonization efforts 
 

64. In paragraphs 80 and 81 of his report the Secretary-General discusses system-
wide harmonization efforts on ICT matters currently being undertaken through 
various inter-agency mechanisms, including the ICT Network of the High-Level 
Committee on Management of the United Nations System Chief Executives Board 
for Coordination. This coordination is intended to promote the development of 
common ICT approaches and solutions for the benefit of the entire United Nations 
system (see also para. 40 above). The Advisory Committee notes the following 
initiatives cited by the Secretary-General: (a) the development of a crisis 
information management strategy, aimed at providing mechanisms to integrate and 
share information across the United Nations system, with a view to enhancing 
information management capacity in the identification, prevention and mitigation 
of, response to and recovery from all types of crises; (b) the United Nations spatial 
data infrastructure concept, aimed at promoting the use of spatial data in an efficient 
manner across the United Nations system; (c) the development of common standards 
and costing information for ICT services and investments; (d) the sharing of 



 A/65/576
 

21 10-64111 
 

expertise and practice in the area of enterprise resource planning, with to view to 
harmonizing business processes and achieving lower software costs; and (e) improved 
coordination in the area of data communications, aimed at achieving savings and 
increased efficiency in the provision of data communication services. The Advisory 
Committee welcomes the efforts under way and encourages the Secretary-
General to continue to seek further opportunities for synergies and for the 
adoption of common standards and solutions across the United Nations system. 
 
 

 B. Structural review 
 
 

65. In his report on the ICT strategy (A/62/793 and Corr.1), the Secretary-General 
proposed that structural reviews of all ICT units throughout the Organization would 
be conducted, with a view to assessing the current state of ICT and rationalizing and 
harmonizing ICT operations and structures. He was requested by the General 
Assembly in its resolution 63/262 to present a comprehensive inventory of ICT 
capacities across the Secretariat, including dedicated and part-time personnel (see 
also para. 45 above). Section III of the Secretary-General’s current report 
(A/65/491) sets out information on the conduct and findings of the Secretariat-wide 
structural review (ibid., paras. 82-103). It also presents the Secretary-General’s 
recommendations and proposals for addressing those findings in the form of four 
structural review projects (ibid., paras. 104-240). 
 

  Review process 
 

66. The Secretary-General presents background information on and details of the 
review process in paragraphs 82 to 92 of his report. As indicated, a preliminary 
survey was conducted in late 2008 aimed at understanding ICT staffing levels, 
functions and workload in approximately 60 departments, offices and field missions 
throughout the Organization. Information about ICT spending, computers, data 
centres and key workload indicators, as well as organizational structure and posts 
was captured in the survey. In addition, the ICT budget allocations were also 
requested and reviewed. The Secretary-General indicates that an in-depth analysis of 
the survey and other available data allowed identification of areas for improvement, 
primarily concerning the ICT organizational design and infrastructure operations. Key 
findings pointed to the variation in ICT job titles and inconsistency among ICT units, 
and the absence of a clear definition of the boundaries between ICT and non-ICT 
jobs, resulting in a lack of visibility with regard to the allocation of resources to ICT 
across the Organization as well as with regard to the totality of ICT expenditure. 

67. A more comprehensive assessment of over 70 ICT units was conducted in 
2010 to update previously gathered survey data and collect additional data on 
workload indicators. In addition, a new global ICT staffing model was developed 
and used in the 2010 survey to more precisely understand and quantify the range of 
ICT functions that were being performed in various duty stations across the 
Organization. The survey data were compared with public sector industry and 
Government sector benchmarks, and were also analysed by subject matter experts 
from ICT units across the Organization in order to identify improvement 
opportunities. The Secretary-General further indicates that consultations were also 
held with the Office of Programme Planning, Budget and Accounts and the Office of 
Human Resources Management to validate data and review project proposals, which 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 22 
 

were subsequently reviewed by ICT chiefs across the Organization, the ICT 
Advisory Group, and the ICT Executive Committee. 

68. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was provided with additional 
information on the methodology used for the structural review process as well as for 
deriving ICT budgets and obtaining staff inventory. This additional information is 
set out in annex III below. The Secretary-General indicates that current accounting 
and human resources management systems do not provide for itemization of ICT 
costs, consistent definitions of ICT functions or clear identification of personnel 
performing ICT tasks. The survey data were therefore compiled manually to derive 
information on ICT expenditures and staff performing ICT functions. As a result the 
review process was extremely labour-intensive and cannot be reproduced on a 
regular basis. 
 

  Main findings 
 

69. Details and analysis concerning the main findings of the survey are presented 
in paragraphs 93 to 103 of the Secretary-General’s report, along with some key ICT 
statistics (A/65/491, table 5). The Secretary-General indicates that the key findings 
of the review are as follows:  

 (a) Annual ICT expenditure of the United Nations is estimated at 
$774 million, including from regular budget, peacekeeping and support account and 
extrabudgetary funding sources. A breakdown of the overall amount by 
office/department and funding source, along with details of the data sources used for 
deriving the data, is provided in annex I to the Secretary-General’s report. The 
Secretary-General indicates that the total is established on the basis of proposed 
rather than approved budgets, which do not always provide the necessary level of 
detail (ibid., paras. 93-94). 

 (b) The total ICT staff count is 4,219, including international staff, 
volunteers and contractual staff. A breakdown of staff by department/office and 
grade level is provided in annex II to the Secretary-General’s report. Details of the 
sources used for deriving the data, are provided in the footnotes to annex I to the 
Secretary-General’s report. The total does not include personnel who perform ICT 
functions but are not a part of a formal ICT unit or do not have an ICT job title. The 
Secretary-General has also identified 173 non-standard ICT job titles. He indicates 
that ICT boundaries are not well defined and that it is not clear what constitutes an 
ICT activity or role. Furthermore, current ICT career paths and job descriptions do 
not reflect evolving ICT demands and industry best practices (ibid., para. 95; see 
also para. 180 (a)). 

 (c) Overall ICT spending represents approximately 5.4 per cent of the annual 
United Nations budget, which is in the range of ICT spending of large Government 
institutions. However, the Secretary-General indicates that comparisons at the level 
of the three main categories of ICT spending (solution delivery, infrastructure, and 
management and administration) show that the Organization is more focused on 
infrastructure and operations (79 per cent of ICT spending) than on solution delivery 
(14 per cent). In this connection, the Committee notes the specificities of the United 
Nations environment, given that a significant portion of ICT resources in field 
missions are devoted to providing basic infrastructure and communications, which is 
in part due to the difficult environments in which many missions must operate, as 
well as the very nature of the support they provide to military and police personnel. 



 A/65/576
 

23 10-64111 
 

Notwithstanding the above, the Secretary-General remains of the view that the share 
of resources devoted to solution delivery is low (ibid., paras. 96-100). 

 (d) There are currently 131 ICT service desks, supporting multiple variable 
workstation environments as well as providing telecommunications support (ibid., 
para. 101). 

 (e) There are some 211 server rooms/data centres, supporting multiple server 
environments, over 4,500 physical servers and over 83,000 desktop computers and 
laptops (ibid., para. 101). 

 (f) The existing budget processes and systems do not allow tracking of ICT 
costs on a regular basis. In this connection the Secretary-General highlights the need 
for a consistent and streamlined global ICT chart of accounts and a supporting 
financial system with improved capabilities (ibid., para. 94). 
 

  Recommendations of the Secretary-General 
 

70. From the findings of the structural review, the Secretary-General concludes 
that the ICT environment and processes remain decentralized, fragmented and 
non-standardized, driving up the costs of operations and preventing the Organization 
from realizing economies of scale. He emphasizes that a lack of resources to 
perform strategic, “cross-cutting” functions has limited the ability of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology to minimize and reverse the effects of 
organizational ICT fragmentation and duplication. To improve this situation, the 
Secretary-General affirms that the Secretariat must invest in one-time projects to 
standardize and streamline ICT environments across the Organization, in order to 
increase the efficiency of routine ICT activities and to allow a larger proportion of 
resources to be dedicated to the development of applications in support of the 
Organization’s programmatic activities. Key findings and recommendations 
emanating from the structural review are summarized in table 6 of the Secretary-
General’s report. In paragraphs 116 to 118 the Secretary-General provides a 
summary of the structural review approach. A graphical presentation of the ICT 
structural review approach is provided in figure IX of the Secretary-General’s 
report. It shows an evolution of focus from the standardization and streamlining of 
the ICT environment to the optimization of resources performing operational 
activities, and to an increase in the ICT resources performing strategic activities.  

71. The Secretary-General has identified four projects to address the issues 
identified in the structural review, as follows:  

 (a) Operational initiatives designed to increase infrastructure efficiency and 
customer service levels: structural review project 1 (“globalize service desks”) and 
structural review project 2 (“streamline data centres”);  

 (b) Strategic initiatives designed to optimize global staffing and ensure that 
ICT personnel are placed where they are most needed, as well as to enhance the 
ability of the Office of Information and Communications Technology to deliver 
enterprise solutions more effectively: structural review project 3 (“rationalize ICT 
organization”), and structural review project 4 (“strengthen the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology”).  

72. For each project, the Secretary-General sets out: (a) the relevant details on the 
findings of the structural review; (b) the project objectives; (c) the principles which 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 24 
 

will guide project implementation; (d) the expected qualitative and quantitative 
benefits; (e) the project phases and schedule; and (f) the resource requirements by 
project phase. The key features of each project are summarized in the paragraphs 
below. 
 

 (a) Structural review project 1: Globalize service desk 
 

73. The Secretary-General’s proposals for this project are contained in paragraphs 
121 to 150 of his report. His findings indicate considerable inefficiencies in the 
current environment due to the lack of modern tools, the use of disparate 
technologies and a lack of integration. As noted above, there are currently 
131 service desks. They are staffed by 835 personnel, at an estimated annual cost of 
$135 million Organization-wide. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was 
provided with a list of the existing service desks, which is contained in annex IV to 
the present report. The Secretary-General proposes to reduce the number of service 
desks and provide 24/7 service, with the introduction of automated and standardized 
service desk technologies and self-service tools for end-users. The project would be 
implemented in four phases starting in 2011 and continuing until 2015, comprising 
an initial planning and design phase, a second phase for the consolidation of 
Headquarters service desks, followed by consolidation of desks in offices away from 
Headquarters and field missions. The overall cost of the project is estimated at 
$58 million. As to the expected benefits, the Secretary-General estimates that 
requirements for ICT personnel, including staff and contractual labour, would be 
reduced by 363 to a total of 491 individuals, and expects potential recurring annual 
benefits in the range of $35 to $47 million (A/65/491, para. 133). A breakdown of 
the benefits in terms of staff labour, contracted labour and equipment is provided in 
table 8 of the report. 

74. Activities envisaged during the first phase of the project, which would extend 
from 1 January 2011 to mid-2012, include the evaluation, selection and piloting of 
the necessary tools. Resource requirements for the activities to be accomplished in 
2011 are estimated at $1,614,900 and would cover the evaluation and selection of 
the required tools (ibid., figure X; table 17). 

75. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was provided with additional 
information on the opportunities for achieving efficiency gains by consolidating 
service desks in field missions, which is contained in annex II below. The 
Committee notes that the Department of Field Support has established a centralized 
service desk for multi-mission applications such as Galileo and Mercury but retains 
service desks locally in field missions to support local area networks. The 
Department indicates that this hybrid approach provides the requisite level of 
flexibility necessary in field missions. 
 

 (b) Structural review project 2: Streamline data centres  
 

76. Details of the Secretary-General’s proposals for project 2 are provided in 
paragraphs 151 to 179 of the report. He indicates that the findings of the structural 
review show that there are currently 34 data centres and 177 server rooms across the 
Secretariat, housing over 4,500 servers and serviced by some 552 personnel at an 
estimated annual cost of $104 million. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was 
provided with a list of data centres and server rooms. It is contained in annex V to 
the present report. The streamlining of the data centres is also discussed in 



 A/65/576
 

25 10-64111 
 

paragraphs 59 to 63 above in the context of the unified ICT disaster recovery plan 
and business continuity approach. Annex II provides details of the ongoing efforts 
of the Department of Field Support to streamline and consolidate data centres in 
field missions. 

77. In paragraph 151 of his report, the Secretary-General provides figures showing 
a high level of growth in the number of servers, and emphasizes the need to contain 
the growth of computing facilities and achieve a rational number of data centres 
worldwide. He proposes the consolidation of data centres, server rooms and servers 
to a minimum number of enterprise and duty station data centres, and the provision 
of 24/7 service. In addition, the management of servers is to be automated and 
standardized, and eventually outsourced. The Secretary-General emphasizes the 
importance of consistency across the Organization and of ensuring that individual 
departments are not allowed to opt out of the common infrastructure.  

78. The Secretary-General indicates that this project is to be implemented from 
2011 to 2015 in four phases, namely: (i) planning and design (2011-2012); 
(ii) continuation of the ongoing standardization of server and storage management 
(2011-2013); (iii) consolidation of local server rooms, including an initial pilot 
phase (2013-2014); and (iv) consolidation of duty station data centres (2014-2015). 
The overall cost of the project is estimated at $56 million, including resource 
requirements of $1.9 million in 2011 for the initial activities of the planning and 
design phase (A/65/491, fig. XI and table 11). 

79. With regard to the benefits of streamlining data centres, the Secretary-General 
estimates that requirements for ICT personnel, including staff and contractual 
labour, would be reduced by approximately 163 to a total of 245 individuals and he 
expects potential recurring annual benefits in the range of $36.4 to $54.6 million 
(ibid., para. 161). A breakdown of benefits in terms of staff, contractual labour and 
equipment is provided in table 10 of the Secretary-General’s report. 
 

 (c) Structural review project 3: Rationalize ICT organization  
 

80. The Secretary-General’s proposals on project 3 are presented in paragraphs 
180 to 195 of his report. He indicates that the findings of the structural review show 
that there are over 4,200 dedicated ICT personnel in the Organization, with over 
170 disparate, unofficial job titles. In addition, many modern ICT roles and career 
paths, such as project manager, are not reflected in the current job titles. The 
difficulties experienced in assessing ICT staff and functions because of the lack of 
standardized job functions are highlighted in paragraph 69 above and in annex III 
below. The Secretary-General also states that there is no Organization-wide 
understanding of what constitutes an ICT activity. 

81. According to the Secretary-General’s report, project 3 is intended to establish 
and define the boundaries of ICT functions, and to specify what constitutes an ICT 
role and where a given ICT function should be performed. A global staffing model 
and global ICT career development process are to be developed and implemented. 
This will allow a review of the ICT units and the formulation of recommendations 
for the implementation of organizational changes in the ICT management structure, 
including the consolidation of multiple ICT units within the same department (ibid., 
para. 181 (e)). 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 26 
 

82. The Secretary-General indicates that it is proposed to carry out the project in 
five parallel streams with the majority of the activities taking place in 2011 and 
2012. The total cost of the project is estimated at $4.6 million, including 
$1.5 million for 2011.  

83. The Secretary-General indicates that the expected benefits include: improved 
transparency of ICT costs; workforce planning and accountability; improved 
professionalism and management of talent; improved staff mobility and reduced 
costs of operations; and avoidance of costs due to redistribution of ICT resources 
across the Organization to the units where they are needed. 

84. In this connection, the Advisory Committee notes that it will be necessary to 
plan for the effective redeployment of staff who may be released as a result of the 
decommissioning of hundreds of ICT systems in the context of the implementation 
of the enterprise resource planning project. In section II above, the Advisory 
Committee expresses the view that the planning of the decommissioning activities 
should be coordinated by the Office of Information and Communications Technology, 
in the context of the projects arising from the outcome of the structural review of 
ICT capacities. The Committee notes from the Secretary-General’s report that one of 
the principles guiding the project is that staff redeployments will be on a voluntary 
basis. Charts showing the distribution of the projected applications to be retired as a 
consequence of the implementation of the enterprise resource planning project in the 
resource management and knowledge management areas are provided in annex VI 
below. 

85. The Advisory Committee further notes that the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology will work with the Office of Human Resources 
Management to implement a comprehensive global ICT career development path 
that facilitates mobility within and across the new ICT career streams. The 
Committee encourages the Secretary-General to pursue such collaborative efforts 
and to take into account prior studies, such as the mission benchmarking analysis 
referred to in the Secretary-General’s overview of the financing of the United 
Nations peacekeeping operations (A/61/786, paras. 123-140).  
 

 (d) Structural review project 4: Strengthen the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology 
 

86. The findings of the structural review in relation to project 4 are presented in 
paragraphs 196 to 203 of the Secretary-General’s report. The Office has a total 
capacity of 366, comprising 161 staff, 32 general temporary assistance personnel 
and 173 contractual personnel. The Secretary-General indicates that this staffing 
level reflects the strength of the Office’s predecessor, the Information Technology 
Services Division of the Department of Management, which was primarily 
responsible for providing core communications, servers and applications to United 
Nations Headquarters, and wide area network support and limited application and 
policy support to other entities within the Secretariat. He states that this workload 
has significantly increased in recent years as demand for ICT services has grown 
and that, furthermore, the mandate of the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology is broader than that of the former Information Technology Services 
Division. He points to a significant resource gap that exists in the Office with 
respect to cross-cutting functions, such as ICT policy, architecture and standard-
setting, departmental ICT budget reviews and global portfolio management 



 A/65/576
 

27 10-64111 
 

(A/65/491, para. 200). Table 13 of the Secretary-General’s report provides a list of 
the mandated activities of the Office and related resource levels. Upon enquiry, the 
Advisory Committee was provided with a more detailed table showing the mandated 
activities and corresponding staff deployment levels, which is contained in annex VII 
below.  

87. The Secretary-General indicates that the project is aimed at augmenting ICT 
resources in high-priority areas where there is currently a significant gap between 
the mandate and the available resources, including areas such as (i) oversight and 
coordination, (ii) cross-cutting, Organization-wide ICT management functions, 
(iii) enterprise application development, in particular knowledge management and 
field systems, and (iv) global infrastructure oversight, architecture and engineering. 

88. The expected benefits include improved effectiveness in the following areas: 
change management; strategic planning and management; alignment of business and 
ICT; increased transparency of ICT capacities; reduced duplication of efforts; and 
availability of shared infrastructure services. 

89. The Secretary-General proposes to strengthen the capacity of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology in two phases, as follows: 

 (a) The first phase includes the establishment of 23 new posts in the Office 
of Information and Communications Technology for the biennium 2010-2011, the 
incumbents of which would carry out the highest-priority planning and management 
of global ICT functions by establishing governance, policies, processes and 
standards for the entire Secretariat; 

 (b) The second phase includes the establishment of an additional 28 new 
posts during the biennium 2012-2013, the incumbents of which would carry out 
functions in the areas of enterprise application development and global 
infrastructure management and ongoing functions needed to plan and improve the 
global ICT environment. 
 

  Resource requirements 
 

90. In paragraphs 241 to 243 of his report, the Secretary-General sets out the 
resources required for the implementation of the four structural review projects. He 
indicates that the amounts represent full project and start-up operational costs for 
the period from 2011 to 2015, broken down by biennium. Tables 17, 18 and 19 of 
the Secretary-General’s report present a further breakdown of costs by project, 
funding source and object of expenditure respectively. The Secretary-General is 
proposing to finance the projects from the regular budget, the support account for 
peacekeeping operations and extrabudgetary resources, based on the cost-sharing 
formula for the enterprise resource planning project, in the following percentages: 
15 per cent from the regular budget, 62 per cent from the support account for 
peacekeeping operations and 23 per cent from the special accounts for programme 
support costs. Furthermore, in view of the lifespan of project implementation over a 
five-year period, the Secretary-General is proposing that a multi-year special 
account be established to record income and expenditure for the three projects 
(A/65/491, para. 35). Table 1 below reproduces a summary of the requirements by 
project and biennium. 
 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 28 
 

  Table 1  
Summary of net resource requirements by project (full project cost at 
current rates) 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 
 

Project 2010-2011 2012-2013 2014-2015 Total 

Globalize service desk 1 614.9 19 655.0 36 774.8 58 044.7 

Streamline data centres 1 906.2 12 391.3 41 833.3 56 130.8 

Rationalize ICT organization 1 490.5 2 130.0 1 000.0 4 620.5 

 Subtotal 5 011.6 34 176.3 79 608.1 118 796.0 

Strengthen the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology 3 523.8 16 521.3 1 834.2 21 879.3 

 Total 8 535.4 50 697.6 81 442.3 140 675.3 
 
 

91. With respect to the Secretary-General’s proposal to establish a multi-year 
account, the Advisory Committee is of the view that the Secretary-General 
could keep track of project income and expenditure without having recourse to 
a multi-year account. Moreover, in the light of its recommendations in 
paragraphs 101 and 102 below, the Committee sees no need for the 
establishment of a special multi-year account for the above-mentioned projects. 
 

  General comments and observations 
 

92. The Advisory Committee welcomes the comprehensive structural review 
and the presentation of an Organization-wide perspective on ICT resources and 
the ICT environment. The findings of the structural review provide, for the 
first time, a sense of the scale of Organization-wide ICT resources and staffing, 
as well as their functional and geographic distribution across the Organization. 
The Committee also appreciates the information provided on the methodology 
used for conducting the structural review. While the results of the review may 
be imperfect owing to the lack of specific information currently available, the 
Committee recognizes the efforts made to refine the analysis and make 
adjustments so as to present as accurate a picture as possible of the ICT 
environment. The Committee shares the Secretary-General’s view that there is 
a need for greater transparency concerning the Organization’s ICT capacities 
in order to improve the effectiveness of the management of ICT resources, and 
emphasizes the need to strengthen the tools and methods for recording and 
analysing data on the utilization of ICT resources Organization-wide. The 
Committee also stresses the need to continue to take into account the 
specificities of ICT requirements in field missions, in particular their strong 
focus on ICT communications activities, and to provide a differentiated 
analysis, if necessary. 

93. The common thread running through the Secretary-General’s presentation 
is the legacy of fragmented ICT environments across the Organization which 
have built up over decades as individual offices have responded to their 
operational requirements under the prevailing organizational arrangements. 
This fragmentation has led to the proliferation of duplicate, incompatible and 
outdated systems, a limited ability to share and process information, and 



 A/65/576
 

29 10-64111 
 

incomplete coverage of ICT requirements, as well as a lack of transparency as 
to the level of the Organization’s ICT expenditure and staffing. The recognition 
of the need to reverse this state of fragmentation was the key rationale for the 
establishment of a horizontal function for the management of ICT activities at 
the United Nations, leading to the establishment of the post of Chief Information 
Technology Officer and a strong, central and independent Office of Information 
and Communications Technology. The Secretary-General states that the four 
projects identified constitute some of the key measures that will be required to 
correct the serious weaknesses in the ICT environment. The Advisory Committee 
welcomes the Secretary-General’s efforts to analyse the results of the structural 
review as a whole and to present a set of solutions for addressing some of the 
root causes of the fragmentation of the ICT environment of the United Nations. 

94. The Advisory Committee notes that the Secretary-General provides details of 
the rationale, scope and potential qualitative and quantitative benefits, as well as an 
implementation plan, for each of the four structural review projects. In the 
Committee’s view, the project proposals provide information that could be used to 
define benchmarks for assessing progress in the future. Table 2 below provides a 
summary of the estimated annual recurring quantified benefits for project 1 
(“globalize service desks”) and project 2 (“streamline data centres”). With regard to 
the quantified benefits related to staff labour, the Secretary-General states that the 
excess staff capacity released as a result of efficiency gains can be redirected to 
higher-value ICT functions or substantive activities (A/65/491, paras. 133 (a) and 
161 (a)). The Committee points out that it would be up to the General Assembly to 
decide on the disposal of staff resources released as a result of efficiency gains (see 
also A/64/7/Add.9, para. 55). 
 

  Table 2 
Estimated annual recurring benefits by project and categorya 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 
 

 Globalize service desks Streamline data centres 

Benefits category Low-range estimate High-range estimate Low-range estimate High-range estimate 

Staff labour 18.7 25.3 5.0 7.5 

Contractual labour 6.6 8.9 14.3 21.4 

Equipment 9.6 13.0 17.1 25.7 

 Total 34.9 47.2 36.4 54.6 
 

 a Figures provided by the Office of Information and Communications Technology and 
reflected in the corrigendum to the Secretary-General’s report (A/65/491/Corr.1). 

 
 

  Implementation approach 
 

95. The Advisory Committee notes that the Secretary-General is proposing 
multiple large projects which are planned to be implemented in phases over a four- 
to five-year period, with financial implications estimated by the Secretary-General 
at a total amount of approximately $141 million over the five-year period from 2011 
to 2015, and one project with a significant staffing increase (structural review 
project 4 (“strengthen the Office of Information and Communications Technology”)). 
Furthermore, he is requesting endorsement of the projects with immediate approval 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 30 
 

of their funding over multiple budget cycles and from multiple funding sources. The 
Committee recognizes that the timing of the Secretary-General’s report is in 
accordance with the requests of the General Assembly in its resolutions 63/262 
and 63/269. However, it notes that the Secretary-General’s proposals are being 
presented in an off-budget year. 

96. The Advisory Committee considers that it would be premature for the 
General Assembly to take a decision on the overall requirements for the 
proposed projects for the period from 2011 to 2015, as proposed by the 
Secretary-General in paragraph 245 (f) of his report. It believes that the 
totality of resource requirements for ICT should be considered in the context of 
the proposed programme budget for 2012-2013 and for 2014-2015. In making 
his proposals, the Secretary-General should indicate how the lessons learned in 
the early phases of the projects would be absorbed and used to adjust the 
planning and requirements of subsequent phases.  

97. The Advisory Committee had an exchange of views on these issues with the 
representatives of the Secretary-General and requested that it be provided with 
alternatives for a phased and prioritized approach to the implementation of the four 
structural review projects. It was informed that the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology had prioritized the four structural review projects as 
follows:  

 (a) First priority: Structural review project 4 (“strengthen the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology”)  

     Structural review project 3 (“rationalize ICT 
organization”) 

 (b) Second priority: Structural review project 1 (“globalize service desks”) 

     Structural review project 2 (“streamline data centres”).  

The Office of Information and Communications Technology stated that structural 
review project 4 (“strengthen the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology”) had been assigned first priority as it was foundational and would 
provide the Office with the necessary operational base to execute its mandate 
effectively, as well as to oversee and support other large-scale projects, such as 
structural review projects 1 and 2, the enterprise resource planning project and 
Inspira. Project 3 would significantly improve ICT effectiveness by increasing 
consistency, standardization, transparency and accountability and by optimization of 
the use of ICT resources. The project would also enable the Office of Information 
and Communications Technology to establish the global leadership role it was 
mandated to achieve. Structural projects 1 and 2 were assigned second priority 
because, while they would improve efficiency and service level and reduce 
fragmentation in a particular area, they would not permanently address the systemic 
issues that had led to a high level of fragmentation in the Secretariat. With respect to 
structural review project 4 (“strengthen the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology”), the Secretary-General indicated that the most 
significant gaps in the staffing of the Office related to functions such as portfolio 
management, project management and development of enterprise, application, 
systems and data architecture. 



 A/65/576
 

31 10-64111 
 

98. The Advisory Committee is of the view that priority should be given to 
structural review project 3 (“rationalize ICT organization”). It considers that 
the establishment of clear job boundaries, defining what constitutes an ICT 
activity, determining where those activities should be performed, and the 
development of a global staffing model are critical prerequisites for the 
necessary organizational changes to the ICT management structure, including 
the consolidation of multiple ICT units (A/65/491, para. 181 (e)).  

99. The Advisory Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be 
requested to review the prioritization and the phasing of structural review 
projects 1, 2 and 4 and to present alternative implementation approaches in the 
context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013. 
Pending consideration of those proposals and recognizing the need to address 
the level of fragmentation, the Committee is of the view that the Secretary-
General should pursue one of the above-mentioned projects that are focused on 
improving efficiency and service levels (see para. 97 above). It believes that 
project 1 (“globalize service desks”) could have the most impact in terms of 
improved service for United Nations staff worldwide.  

100. With regard to the project for the strengthening of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology (project 4), the Committee 
considers that the Secretary-General should articulate a longer-range process 
of building up towards the capacity he considers to be required for ICT in the 
Organization. The Committee is of the opinion that a more staged approach 
would ideally involve the redeployment of resources released as a result of 
efficiency gains, rather than only increments in the overall staffing levels. Such 
a staged approach would allow the General Assembly to both appreciate the 
impact of the strategy and understand the mechanisms for harvesting savings 
from efficiency gains. Pending submission of the proposals relating to structural 
review project 4 (“strengthen the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology”), the Committee considers that the Secretary-General should be 
granted general temporary assistance to augment the capacity of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology to undertake the strategic, cross-
cutting programmes of its broadened, Organization-wide mandate, such as the 
development of enterprise architecture (A/65/491, para. 201). 
 

  Recommendations 
 

101. The actions to be taken by the General Assembly are set out in paragraph 
245 of the Secretary-General’s report. Taking into account its considerations in 
paragraphs 96, 99 and 100 above, the Advisory Committee recommends that 
the General Assembly: 

 (a) Authorize the Secretary-General to implement structural review 
project 3 (“rationalize ICT organization”); 

 (b) Authorize the Secretary-General to proceed with the activities 
planned for 2011 as part of the first phase of structural review project 1 
(“globalize service desks”); 

 (c) Approve general temporary assistance equivalent to 7 P-4 positions to 
provide additional capacity for the Office of Information and Communications 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 32 
 

Technology pending consideration of the proposals mentioned in paragraph 99 
above; 

 (d) Endorse an extension of the existing lease of the secondary data 
centre for another 30 months beyond 31 December 2011. 

102. The Committee further recommends that the resources required for the 
activities cited in paragraph 101 (a), (b) and (c) above be provided from within 
the resources approved for the biennium 2010-2011, and that actual expenditure 
be reported in the context of the second performance report. 

 

 

 



 A/65/576
 

33 10-64111 
 

Annex I 
 

  Procedures for the selection of subject matter experts for the 
enterprise resource planning project 
 
 

 A “lite-process” for the competitive selection of subject matter experts for 
human resources, budget and finance, central support and the supply chain, has been 
introduced with effect from October 2010, in view of the large number of subject 
matter experts required for the Umoja project and the need to ensure consistency 
and transparency in the selection process, in compliance with established provisions 
for staff selection. The process was introduced because the lack of subject matter 
experts posed significant risks to the project. These risks were discussed in the 
Steering Committee. 

 This process allows for the fair consideration of staff members who express 
interest in working as subject matter experts and was the result of extensive 
consultations with the Umoja team and other relevant parties within the Department 
of Management (the Office of Human Resources Management, the Office of 
Programme Planning, Budget and Accounts and the Office of Central Support 
Services). The aim is to establish a roster of candidates to avoid repetitive selection 
exercises and facilitate administrative procedures. 

 The procedures are as follows: 
 

 1. Preparation of subject matter expert profiles 
 

 Umoja Team Leaders draft temporary vacancy announcements for subject 
matter experts and share them with the Offices of the Assistant Secretaries-General 
for the Office of Human Resources Management, the Office of Programme 
Planning, Budget and Accounts and the Office of Central Support Services, as 
required, for clearance. For field and conference management-related functions, 
temporary vacancy announcements are cleared by the Under-Secretary-General, 
Department of Field Support and the Assistant Secretary-General, Department for 
General Assembly and Conference Management, respectively. 
 

 2. Evaluation of applications of subject matter experts 
 

 Representatives of the Umoja project and the respective business owners (the 
Assistant Secretaries-General of the Department of Management and the Department 
for General Assembly and Conference Management, and the Under-Secretary-
General of the Department of Field Support) participate in joint evaluation of 
applicants. Assessments include review of candidates’ personal history profiles and 
performance evaluations. Interviews would be at the discretion of the programme 
managers. A roster of suitable candidates is established and approved by the 
business owners. The Director of the Umoja project recommends to the Under-
Secretary-General of the Department of Management, through the Chief Information 
Technology Officer, subject matter experts for selection from the roster. The release 
of candidates is arranged by the Executive Office of the Department of 
Management, following approval by the Under-Secretary-General of the Department 
of Management. 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 34 
 

 Subject matter experts for specialized functions where expertise is only 
available in a particular department/office, such as investment management, 
cashiers, etc., will be outside the process described above and will be 
identified/selected by the business owners. 

 The movement of subject matter experts is administratively recorded for 
mobility purposes. 



 A/65/576
 

35 10-64111 
 

Annex II 
 

  Ongoing activities undertaken by the Department of Field 
Support to streamline and consolidate service desks and 
data centres in field missions 
 
 

  Service desks 
 

1. Opportunities exist to achieve efficiency gains by consolidating service desks 
and streamlining data centres in field missions. Certain specific factors will have to 
be taken into consideration when implementing the projects in field missions. These 
factors include the necessity for rapid reaction capability to address changing 
circumstances, the need to balance centralization with on-site capability and the 
difficulty and costs associated with voice, data and video transmissions over a 
largely satellite-based telecommunications infrastructure. The consideration of these 
factors is required given the lack of native information and communications 
technology (ICT) capacities in mission deployment areas.  

2. The Department of Field Support has established a centralized service desk for 
such multi-mission applications as Galileo, Mercury, the Field Support Suite and 
Business Objects and for wide area network management. The service desk operates 
under a service management best practices framework utilizing the information 
technology infrastructure library methodology. The service desk is maintained for 
centralized systems only. As more centralized systems are implemented, the service 
desk size and scope will be adjusted accordingly. Service desks are retained in field 
missions to support local area networks, local communications infrastructure and 
distributed systems.  

3. This hybrid approach provides the requisite flexibility and ensures that 
sufficient on-site support is available to uniformed and civilian personnel in 
missions, particularly in the light of troop and police rotations and a high turnover 
rate among staff. The approach also reduces costs associated with voice, video and 
data transmissions over the satellite-based wide area network. It is envisaged that 
the Department of Field Support will leverage the global field support strategy to 
achieve efficiency gains by combining, streamlining and consolidating the ICT 
service desk functions with other non-ICT call centre operations as the support 
components are consolidated in the regional service centres. The Department will 
leverage the Organization’s service desk software by implementing the system in 
field missions to support ICT and other functional service desks. In addition, remote 
access technology software that is already part of a standard software package in 
field missions will be leveraged during this fiscal period to further consolidate 
service desks and accelerate services throughout the missions. 
 

  Service centres 
 

4. The Department has also embarked on a project to consolidate and streamline 
data centres as part of its “light footprint” programme in field missions. This 
programme includes the virtualization of servers and the centralization of 
applications. As with the service desk initiative, the Department is taking a 
measured approach to mitigate risks associated with the degradation of services and 
is considering cost implications in the light of satellite-based telecommunications. 
The Department expects to be able to reduce the number of servers in field missions 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 36 
 

by approximately 20 per cent during the 2010/11 fiscal period and will aim for a 
further reduction in data centres during the period 2011/12. As more systems are 
centralized, further opportunities will be exploited. With the secondary active 
telecommunications facility for peacekeeping becoming fully operational in 
2011/12, opportunities to reduce tier 2 disaster recovery and business continuity 
facilities should further reduce the number of data centres and servers in use in the 
field missions.  

5. The Department’s efforts to consolidate service desks and streamline data 
centres in the field in the coming years, as described above, will be carried out 
under the Secretariat-wide strategy and guidance of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology in the context of the two proposed structural review 
projects. 

 



 A/65/576
 

37 10-64111 
 

Annex III 
 

  Methodology used for the structural review process and for 
deriving information and communications technology 
budgets and obtaining staff inventory 
 
 

  Overall methodology for the structural review process 
 

1. In line with the request of the General Assembly, structural reviews of all 
information and communications technology (ICT) units throughout the Secretariat 
have been conducted. The goal of the structural review is to rationalize and 
harmonize ICT operations and structures by making recommendations on 
organizational and other changes that will improve the effectiveness, efficiency and 
cohesiveness of ICT operations. 

2. In late 2008, an initial survey aimed at understanding ICT staffing levels, 
functions and workload was completed by approximately 60 departments, offices 
and field missions throughout the Secretariat. The survey took a broad view of ICT, 
encompassing all staff and activities associated with the development, 
implementation and management of processes and technologies that enable the 
management of electronic information such as data, documents, websites and 
multimedia objects. The survey captured spending and staffing data, environmental 
data, such as the number of hardware assets, information about data centre facilities 
and certain workload indicators, such as the number of user accounts and supported 
devices. Staffing tables, organization charts of ICT units and proposed budget 
allocations were also requested and reviewed. In addition, 38 ICT processes were 
assessed using CobiT, a widely accepted management framework of indicators for 
measuring ICT process maturity.  

3. An in-depth analysis of survey and other data identified improvement 
objectives in the areas of ICT organizational design and infrastructure. The 
improvement objectives were reviewed by Office of Information and 
Communications Technology senior management and ICT chiefs across the 
Secretariat. A key finding was that a wide variation of ICT job titles exists and that 
inconsistency among ICT units is prevalent. It was also clear that the boundaries 
between ICT and non-ICT jobs were not clearly delineated.  

4. In 2010, a more comprehensive data collection exercise was conducted with 
the intention of refreshing previously collected data and obtaining additional 
workload indicator data in order to refine business change cases and more 
accurately assess potential costs and benefits. Several survey workshops and 
training sessions were provided to all survey participants to improve accuracy. A 
proposed new ICT staffing model was created and used in the survey so as to obtain 
a more precise understanding and quantify the range of ICT functions being 
performed across the Secretariat.  

5. The survey data were compared with public sector industry and government 
sector benchmarks from leading information technology research and advisory 
firms.a While the United Nations is unique in its operational model, the benchmark 
comparisons provided directional input and confirmed that high levels of 
fragmentation were resulting in reduced efficiency, capacity and output in key areas 

__________________ 

 a Public sector benchmarks from Gartner and Info-tech were used. 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 38 
 

and resulting in the inefficient use of available ICT resources. In particular, the 
benchmarks for ICT units in the Department of Field Support were adjusted to 
account for the challenges and constraints associated with the support of ICT in 
field missions.  

6. The data were used as input for detailed cost and benefit quantification of 
improvement opportunities. Teams of subject matter experts from ICT units across 
the Secretariat analysed the data, combining their knowledge of the existing 
operational realities of the United Nations to prepare preliminary business change 
cases. These were subsequently reviewed by ICT chiefs across the Secretariat and 
the ICT Advisory Group and endorsed by the ICT Executive Committee.  

7. The following paragraphs describe the methodology used to derive the ICT 
budgets across the Secretariat, as well as the process that was used to compile ICT 
personnel. The level of difficulty encountered while attempting to achieve a 
consolidated budget figure and staff inventory highlights the significant limitations 
that currently exist in effectively managing the global ICT environment of the 
Secretariat.  
 

  Methodology for deriving information and communications technology budgets 
 

8. On the advice of the Programme Planning and Budget Division, proposed 
budgets were used as the source owing to the level of detail available to segregate 
ICT budget resources from non-ICT budget resources. The work of compiling an 
estimated budget figure for the Secretariat spanned several months. Office of 
Information and Communications Technology staff had to learn budget and finance 
systems in order to reconcile reporting requirements with what was available in 
various record systems.  

9. The snapshot included in the report of the Secretary-General (A/65/491) 
details the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011 for the 
Secretariat, regional commissions, tribunals and offices away from Headquarters. 
For peacekeeping and political missions, the proposed budget for the period from 
1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010 was used.  

10. Not all departments across the Secretariat were included in this exercise. 
Departments or offices that are very small (generally with fewer than 30 staff) or 
have no ICT unit or staff were considered outside the scope of the study. The scope 
was based on the report on the composition of the Secretariat (A/64/352). The 
Information and Communications Technology Division of the Department of Field 
Support provided a revised list of field missions. Offices of programmes and funds 
were excluded from the exercise with the exception of the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development, the United Nations Environment 
Programme, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and the United Nations 
Human Settlements Programme, as they had a large number of ICT staff and were 
included in the report on the composition of the Secretariat. The enterprise resource 
planning budget was also excluded from the scope of this exercise, since it 
represents an atypical, large, one-time investment.  

11. An aggregate amount from the four main sources is used to arrive at the total 
annualized proposed ICT budget (2010-2011):  



 A/65/576
 

39 10-64111 
 

 (a) Regular budget: 

   • The proposed ICT budget for 2010-2011 is used as the basis 

   • The annual budget is derived by dividing the proposed programme 
budget for the biennium 2010-2011 by 2 

   • The proposed ICT budget figures for all the departments/offices except 
for the offices away from Headquarters and the special political 
missions are based on A/64/6 (Introduction) 

   • The proposed ICT budget figures for three offices away from 
Headquarters (United Nations Office at Geneva, United Nations Office 
at Vienna and United Nations Office at Nairobi) are based on the 
proposed programme budget (A/64/6 (Sects. 28E, 28F and 28G)) 

  • The proposed ICT budget figures for the special political missions are 
based on A/64/349/Add.3 

 (b) Extrabudgetary:  

  • Since this is not reported in any of the budget reports, the 2010-2011 
annualized budget is based on budget figures that were reported and 
validated by each department/office during the structural review 
exercise 

 (c) Support account for peacekeeping operations: 

  • The proposed budget for the support account for 2009/10 (A/63/767) is 
used as the basis 

  • The proposed support account ICT and staff cost figures are based on 
A/63/698/Add.1 and A/63/767 

 (d) Peacekeeping budgets: 

  • The proposed budgets for peacekeeping missions for 2009/10 are used 
as the basis 

  • The proposed peacekeeping ICT budgets and staff cost figures of all 
the peacekeeping missions except for the support of the African Union 
Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) are based on A/C.5/63/24 

  • The proposed peacekeeping ICT budget and staff cost figures relating 
to support of AMISOM is based on A/64/465 

 

  Process for obtaining information and communications technology staff 
inventory within the Secretariat 
 

12. Pursuant to the General Assembly’s request to provide a comprehensive 
inventory of information and communications technology capacities across the 
Secretariat, the Office of Information and Communications Technology structural 
review project team began the process of collecting the inventory of ICT personnel 
in early 2010.  

13. Initial meetings with the Office of Human Resources Management indicated 
that it does not house a comprehensive inventory across the Secretariat and that 
therefore manual intervention and surveying would be required.  



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 40 
 

14. Based on a workforce planning exercise that was carried out in 2009, the 
Office of Human Resources Management was able to provide the structural review 
team with a list of staff holding an ICT job title, as well as a list of all staff assigned 
to units that had at least one ICT staff member in them, regardless of title. The 
initial list provided by the Office of Human Resources Management contained more 
than 5,000 staff members. The structural review team manually pared the list down 
to approximately 2,000 by reviewing job titles and eliminating those which were 
clearly not ICT related. 

15. The information on the remaining 2,000-plus staff members was pre-populated 
into the ICT survey templates that were sent to each ICT unit for validation. The 
ICT chiefs and focal points were asked to confirm that the list reflected the actual 
personnel in their respective units, to update the list to reflect additional resources 
such as staff not indicated on the original list, consultants and contractors, as well as 
to assign the ICT personnel a new job title using the newly designed ICT career 
paths (global staffing model). In addition, ICT chiefs and focal points were asked to 
provide a functional breakdown of ICT personnel according to the functional 
definition used by the structural review team, which classified all ICT activities in 
the Secretariat into high-level categories.  

16. As the scope of the Office of Human Resources Management data is limited to 
staff that hold a letter of appointment, it excludes the majority of ICT personnel in 
the missions. The ICT personnel information for the missions was provided to the 
structural review team by the Department of Field Support. 

17. The combination of survey results and the list provided by the Department of 
Field Support indicated that there were 4,219 ICT personnel as at March 2010, 
distributed among 173 different ICT job titles. 
 

  Observations on the information and communications technology staff inventory 
data-collection process 
 

18. The Office of Human Resources Management does not have a Secretariat-wide 
inventory of ICT personnel. It was not possible to obtain a Secretariat-wide 
inventory or headcount of ICT vendor personnel that are assigned to the Secretariat 
directly from the vendors. For example, the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology was unable to obtain a headcount of United Nations 
Office for Project Services personnel working for the Information and 
Communications Technology Division of the Department of Field Support. 

19. The Office of Human Resources Management data warehouse covers only 
personnel who have been issued a letter of appointment and so excludes consultants, 
contractors, local field personnel and the like, as the authority for human resources 
management has been delegated to the Department of Field Support for personnel 
under its purview. 

20. For the 4,219 personnel distributed among 173 different ICT job titles, there is 
currently no consistency among job titles; some are very descriptive whereas others 
are too vague and are not indicative of what one’s job functions are. 

21. In some cases there was a misunderstanding on the part of respondents about 
the reason to validate the ICT personnel information in the survey and resistance to 
doing so. Once it was explained that the information had been requested by the 
General Assembly, all respondents were compliant, however, the structural review 



 A/65/576
 

41 10-64111 
 

team has no way of verifying how comprehensive the validation process was, 
whether all consultants were added to the inventory and furthermore whether 
“shadow” ICT staff — those who perform ICT functions but are not categorized as 
such — were included. 

22. The temporary staffing database that was created for the purpose of providing 
this information to the General Assembly was extremely labour-intensive; it has not 
been possible to keep it updated, and furthermore, the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology does not presently have resources that would enable it 
to, although it has been mandated by Member States to perform this function. 

23. The Sourcing Management Section of the Enterprise Management Division 
will, among other things, ensure that the inventory of all Secretariat-wide ICT 
personnel is maintained on an ongoing basis and that a comprehensive ICT sourcing 
management policy is in place. 

 

 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 42 
 

Annex IV 
 

  Existing service desks 
 
 

Department/office 

No. of 
service 

desks Location 

Department of Economic and Social Affairs  1 New York 

Department of Field Support/Field Budget and Finance Division 1 New York 

Department of Field Support/Field Personnel Division 1 New York 

Department of Field Support/Information and Communications Technology 
Division 

1 New York 

Department for General Assembly and Conference Management  1 New York 

Department of Management 0 New York 

Department of Management/Office of Central Support Services 1 New York 

Department of Management/Office of Human Resources Management  1 New York 

Department of Management/Office of Programme Planning, Budget and Accounts 0 New York 

Department of Management/Office of the Under-Secretary-General 0 New York 

Department of Political Affairs  1 New York 

Department of Public Information  1 New York 

Department of Peacekeeping Operations  0 New York 

Department of Safety and Security  0 New York 

Executive Office of the Secretary-General 0 New York 

Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs  7 New York, Geneva 

Office for Disarmament Affairs 0 New York 

Office of Information and Communications Technology 3 New York 

Office of Internal Oversight Services  1 New York 

Office of Legal Affairs  0 New York 

 Subtotal, Headquarters 20   

United Nations Office at Geneva 10 Geneva 

Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 1 Geneva 

United Nations Conference on Trade and Development  1 Geneva 

United Nations Office at Nairobi/United Nations Environment Programme/ 
UN-Habitat 

1 Kenya 

United Nations Office at Vienna/United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime 3 Vienna 

Economic Commission for Africa  1 Addis Ababa 

Economic Commission for Europe  1 Geneva 

Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean  3 Santiago 

Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific  1 Bangkok 

Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia  1 Beirut 

International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda  3 Arusha, United Republic of Tanzania 



 A/65/576
 

43 10-64111 
 

Department/office 

No. of 
service 

desks Location 

International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia  1 The Hague, Amsterdam 

 Subtotal, offices away from Headquarters, regional commissions and others 27   

United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo 16 Democratic Republic of the Congo 

United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire  1 Côte d’Ivoire 

United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus  4 Cyprus 

United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon  3 Beirut 

United Nations Logistics Base  1 Brindisi, Italy 

United Nations Mission in the Sudan 8 Khartoum 

United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste  5 Timor-Leste 

United Nations Integrated Office in Burundi 5 Bujumbura 

United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan  27 Kabul 

United Nations Peacebuilding Support Office in Guinea-Bissau  0 Guinea-Bissau 

Rest of the missions 14  

 Subtotal, peacekeeping and special political missions 84   

 Total 131   

 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 44 
 

Annex V 
 

  Data centres and server rooms 
 
 

 Number Location 

Data centres  

Office of Information and Communications Technology 2 New York 

Economic Commission for Africa 1 Addis Ababa 

Economic Commission for Europe 1 Berkshire, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland 

Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean 1 Santiago 

Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific 1 Bangkok 

Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia 1 Beirut 

International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda 2 Arusha, United Republic of Tanzania 

International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia 2 The Hague, Netherlands 

United Nations Office at Geneva 2 Geneva 

United Nations Office at Nairobi/United Nations Environment Programme 2 Kenya 

United Nations Office at Vienna/United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime 2 Nigeria 

United Nations Office at Vienna/United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime 1 Bogota 

United Nations Office at Vienna/United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime 1 New Delhi 

United Nations Office at Vienna/United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime 2 Vienna 

United Nations Conference on Trade and Development 1 Geneva 

United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo 3 Democratic Republic of the Congo 

United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire 1 Côte’ d’Ivoire 

United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus 1 Cyprus 

United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon 1 Beirut 

United Nations Logistics Base 3 Brindisi, Italy 

United Nations Integrated Office in Burundi 2 Bujumbura 

United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan 1 Kabul 

 Subtotal  34  

Server rooms  

Department of Economic and Social Affairs 1 New York 

Department for General Assembly and Conference Management 1 New York 

Office of Information and Communications Technology 2 New York 

Economic Commission for Africa 2 Addis Ababa 

Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean 9 Santiago 

Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific 1 Bangkok 

International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda 4 Arusha, United Republic of Tanzania 

International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia 5 The Hague, Netherlands 

United Nations Office at Geneva 6 Geneva 

United Nations Office at Nairobi/United Nations Environment Programme 2 Nairobi 

United Nations Office at Vienna/United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime 32 Vienna 



 A/65/576
 

45 10-64111 
 

 Number Location 

Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 8 Geneva 

United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo 17 Democratic Republic of the Congo 

United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire 8 Côte’ d’Ivoire 

United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus 3 Cyprus 

United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon 4 Beirut 

United Nations Logistics Base 6 Brindisi, Italy 

United Nations Mission in the Sudan 22 Khartoum 

United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste 7 Timor-Leste 

United Nations Integrated Office in Burundi 7 Bujumbura 

United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan 29 Kabul 

United Nations Integrated Peacebuilding Office in Guinea-Bissau 1 Guinea-Bissau 

 Subtotal  177  

 Total 211  

 

 



A/65/576  
 

10-64111 46 
 

Annex VI 
 

  Applications to be retired as a consequence of the 
implementation of the enterprise resource planning system 
 
 

 A. Resource management 
 
 

 
 
 

 B. Knowledge management 
 
 

 

109 

274

134

43   

4 

21

3

12   

0  
50  

100   
150   
200   
250   
300   
350   

Collaboration and 
social networking 

Document management Web content management Reports and analytics 

Projected to be retired 

Projected to continue 

64

161

58 60
39

112

30

77
52

34

12

154

106
127

18

91

54

5 41

24

0 

50

100

150

200

250

300

350 Projected to be retired

Projected to continue

Meeting  and  
con fe rence  

Human  
resources 

Other Reports Pro ject and  
administra tive  
management 

Safe ty  and  
sec urity 

Travel  
management

Custom 
relationsh ip  
management

Supply 
chain  

Reports Finance 



 
 

 

A
/65/576

10-64111 
47

Annex VII 
 

  Office of Information and Communications Technology mandate and staff deployment 
 
 

  Management goals  

Mandate from approved ICT 
strategya 

New/ 
existing 

mandate 

Additional 
resources 

provided

Current 
staff 

assigned

Additional
 staff

 proposed

Ensure 
optimum

 use of
 resources

Control 
fragmentation

Improve 
transparency 

and 
accountability

Improve 
efficiency

Improve 
effectiveness Impact of no additional resources 

Chief Information 
Technology Officer 

New Yes 1
 

Strategy development and 
alignment: development of 

the ICT strategy for the 
Secretariat and coordination 
of its implementation  
(para. 35 (a)) 

New No 3 4 X X X X

Global ICT financial 
monitoring and reporting, 
Secretariat-wide ICT 
budget review: reviewing 

budgets from all funding 
sources for all ICT initiatives 
and operations of the 
Secretariat (para. 35 (b))  

New No 0 3 X X X X X

ICT performance 
measurement and 
management: monitoring, 

measuring and evaluating 
the performance of ICT 
units against established 
goals, objectives and 
budgetary targets, utilizing 
accountability frameworks 
as appropriate (para. 35 (c)) 

New No 0 1 X X X X

Enterprise architecture: 
setting the technological 
direction and architecture 
for the Organization 
(para. 35 (d)) 

New No 3 6 X X X X

• Loss of credibility and 
inability to perform 
leadership role 

 – Ineffective governance 
structures 

 – Insufficient ability to 
perform day-to-day 
management and 
coordination of ICT 
managers across the 
Secretariat 

 – Inability to position ICT 
properly in the context of 
the work of the Organization

 – Inability to drive 
transformational initiatives 

 – Loss of credibility 

 – Lack of transparency into 
Secretariat ICT spending 

 – Lack of budgetary oversight 
in the ICT area 

 – Member States will 
continue to receive ICT 
investment proposals that 
are not necessarily aligned 
with the Organizational 
priorities 



 
 

A
/65/576 

 

48 
10-64111

  Management goals  

Mandate from approved ICT 
strategya 

New/ 
existing 

mandate 

Additional 
resources 

provided

Current 
staff 

assigned

Additional
 staff

 proposed

Ensure 
optimum

 use of
 resources

Control 
fragmentation

Improve 
transparency 

and 
accountability

Improve 
efficiency

Improve 
effectiveness Impact of no additional resources 

Enterprise application 
development: planning and 

developing all Organization-
wide ICT applications, 
including an enterprise 
resource planning system 
and other major systems 
(para. 35 (e)) 

Existing Limited 
(except 

for 
Umoja)

52 11 X X X X

Enterprise infrastructure 
design: planning and 

developing the overall 
infrastructure architecture 
encompassing the 
communications networks 
and data centres of the 
Organization (para. 35 (f)) 

Existing Limited 14 8 X X X X

Enterprise infrastructure 
operation: using the 

Organization’s global 
presence and ICT 
infrastructure to develop and 
operate Secretariat-wide 
applications and 
infrastructure in order to 
maximize benefits and cost-
effectiveness (para. 35 (g)) 

Existing Limited 61 2 X X X X

Technology research: 
undertaking, in 
collaboration with other ICT 
units, ICT research and 
development activities 
(para. 35 (h)) 

New No 1 X X X

Security and risk 
management: overseeing the 

assessment and management 
of ICT risks for the 
Organization (para. 35 (i)) 

New No 1 X X X

 – Inability of Member States 
to understand the linkages 
between various ICT 
initiatives 

 – Investments in low-priority 
areas; deepening of 
fragmentation and shadow 
ICT  

 – Lack of shared 
accountability 

 – Inability to account for ICT 
assets Secretariat-wide 

 – Lack of performance 
measurement of 
autonomous ICT units 

 – Lack of transparency into 
ICT metrics and 
productivity 

 – Inability to improve 
accountability 

 – Decreased efficiency  

 – Proliferation of local 
infrastructure and 
applications 

 – High ICT cost with no 
visible benefit 

 – Deepening of fragmentation 
resulting in the need to redo 
projects similar to projects 
1 and 2 but at a much 
higher cost 

 – Lack of technology 
planning and inability to 
exploit state-of-the-art 
technology 



 
 

 

A
/65/576

10-64111 
49

  Management goals  

Mandate from approved ICT 
strategya 

New/ 
existing 

mandate 

Additional 
resources 

provided

Current 
staff 

assigned

Additional
 staff

 proposed

Ensure 
optimum

 use of
 resources

Control 
fragmentation

Improve 
transparency 

and 
accountability

Improve 
efficiency

Improve 
effectiveness Impact of no additional resources 

Security and risk 
management: developing 

and maintaining the 
information security policy 
of the Organization and 
monitoring compliance 
across operational units 
(para. 35 (j)) 

Existing Limited 3 1 X X X X

Security and risk 
management: managing the 

implementation of disaster 
recovery and business 
continuity plans for the 
Organization (para. 35 (k)) 

Existing Limited 1 X X X X X

ICT human resources 
management: coordinating 

strategic ICT human 
resources management 
programme and activities, 
including staff development 
and mobility of all ICT staff 
in the global Secretariat 
(para. 35 (l)) 

New No 1 X X X X X

ICT project review, 
methodology and 
standards development: 

providing business 
consulting and project 
management methodologies 
and services to all ICT units 
(para. 35 (m)) 

New Limited 2 1 X X X X X

ICT investment and 
portfolio management: 

monitoring, measuring and 
evaluating the performance 
and strategic alignment of 
all projects and investment 
initiatives in the ICT project 
portfolio of the global 
Secretariat (para. 35 (n)) 

New No 2 1 X X X X X

 – Lack of integration between 
organizational direction and 
ICT capability to support 
programmes of work  

 – Proliferation of local 
applications 

 – High ICT cost with no 
visible benefit 

 – Proliferation of “shadow 
ICT” personnel 

 – Inability to further strategic 
programmes, such as 
knowledge management 
programme 

 – Lack of enterprise approach 
to solution delivery 

 – Proliferation of local and 
non-standardized 
infrastructure 

 – High ICT cost with no 
visible benefit 

 – Inability to drive 
consolidation of existing 
infrastructure 

 – Inability to utilize 
economies of scale 

 – Non-standardized and 
duplicative infrastructure 
across the Organization 

 – Higher cost of operations 

 – High operational risk 

 – Decreased efficiency 

 – Inability to proactively 
adopt ICT standards 



 
 

A
/65/576 

 

50 
10-64111

  Management goals  

Mandate from approved ICT 
strategya 

New/ 
existing 

mandate 

Additional 
resources 

provided

Current 
staff 

assigned

Additional
 staff

 proposed

Ensure 
optimum

 use of
 resources

Control 
fragmentation

Improve 
transparency 

and 
accountability

Improve 
efficiency

Improve 
effectiveness Impact of no additional resources 

ICT sourcing: establishing 
ICT vendor (sourcing) 
management policies; 
reviewing and monitoring 
purchasing and contract 
renewal activities; 
coordinating vendor 
management selection, 
procurement and 
management strategies 
across the ICT organization 
(para. 35 (o)) 

New No 3 X X X X X

Quality assurance: 
implementing quality 
assurance processes to 
ensure that all policies, 
processes and standards are 
in compliance (para. 35 (p)) 

New Limited 2 2 X X X X X

Client services/business 
relationship management: 

establish client services 
function (para. 42) 

New Limited 4 2 X X X X

Perform Executive Office 
function 

New Limited 14 2 X X X

•  Lack of technology 
planning and inability to 
exploit state-of-the-art 
technology 

•  Inability to leverage 
evolving technology to the 
benefit of the Organization 

 – High operational risk to 
ICT operations and data 

 – Lack of systematic 
approach to ICT disaster 
recover planning 

 – Inability to recover data 
and networks after 
downtimes promptly 

 – High operational risk to 
ICT operations and data 

 – Inability to accurately 
account for ICT personnel 

 – Deepening of ICT human 
resources fragmentation 
resulting in the need to 
redo a project similar to 
project 3 

 – Lack of integration between 
organizational direction and 
ICT capability to support 
programmes of work 

 – Lack of ICT human 
resources strategic 
workforce planning and 
development 

 – Inability to exploit state-of-
the-art technology 



 
 

 

A
/65/576

10-64111 
51

  Management goals  

Mandate from approved ICT 
strategya 

New/ 
existing 

mandate 

Additional 
resources 

provided

Current 
staff 

assigned

Additional
 staff

 proposed

Ensure 
optimum

 use of
 resources

Control 
fragmentation

Improve 
transparency 

and 
accountability

Improve 
efficiency

Improve 
effectiveness Impact of no additional resources 

 – Inability to drive 
application consolidation 
through business process 
re-engineering 

 – Poor ICT project 
management that leads to 
poorly executed and costly 
solution delivery 

 – Decreased efficiency  

 – Misalignment between ICT 
investments and 
organizational priorities 

 – Siloed approach to solution 
delivery and duplication of 
effort 

 – Lack of transparency into 
ongoing and proposed ICT 
initiatives 

 – Inability to monitor project 
delivery and increase the 
proportion of on-time, 
on-budget ICT projects 

 – No shared accountability 

 – Ineffective governance 
structures 

 – Inability to leverage 
economies of scale and 
negotiate better ICT vendor 
contracts 

 – Lack of vendor oversight 
and vendor performance 
measurement  

 – Lack of enterprise approach 
to quality assurance 

 – Lower quality of solutions 



 
 

A
/65/576 

 

52 
10-64111

  Management goals  

Mandate from approved ICT 
strategya 

New/ 
existing 

mandate 

Additional 
resources 

provided

Current 
staff 

assigned

Additional
 staff

 proposed

Ensure 
optimum

 use of
 resources

Control 
fragmentation

Improve 
transparency 

and 
accountability

Improve 
efficiency

Improve 
effectiveness Impact of no additional resources 

– Inability to capture 
departmental priorities 

•  Misalignment between 
business needs and ICT 
solutions 

•  Higher rate of fragmentation

 – Inability to perform day-to-
day human resource and 
financial management 

   
 Total  161 51  

 
Operational posts redirected 
towards cross-cutting 
functions 

 19

 

 a A/62/793 and Corr.1. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 


