
 United Nations  A/64/477

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
6 October 2009 
 
Original: English 

 

09-54436 (E)    151009     
*0954436*   

Sixty-fourth session 
Agenda item 132 
Proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011 

 
 
 

  Report on the enterprise content management and customer 
relationship management systems and proposal for a unified 
disaster recovery and business continuity plan 
 
 

  Revised estimates relating to the proposed programme 
budget for the biennium 2010-2011 under sections 28D, 
Office of Central Support Services, 29, Office of 
Information and Communications Technology, and 36,  
Staff assessment 
 
 

  Report of the Secretary-General 
 
 
 

 Summary 
 The present report is submitted in response to the request of the General 
Assembly in paragraph 26 (e) of section II of its resolution 63/262, to provide an 
update on the implementation of the enterprise content management (ECM) and the 
customer relationship management (CRM) systems. The report provides the overall 
context for the implementation of both ECM and CRM systems and highlights their 
synergies with each other as well as their relationship to the enterprise resource 
planning (ERP) project (Umoja). The goals, rationale and benefits of each project are 
presented together with plans for phased implementation throughout the United 
Nations Secretariat, including offices away from Headquarters, the regional 
commissions, peacekeeping and political missions, and other field missions. 

 The report also responds to the request of the General Assembly in paragraph 
13 of section IV of the same resolution, which called for a report on data storage and 
business continuity services, drawing on the experience of other United Nations 
entities and global developments in information and communications technology 
(ICT). It presents a framework for a unified approach to disaster recovery and 
business continuity for ICT, highlights the principles that will guide the refinement 
of the strategy for an Organization-wide disaster recovery and business continuity 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 2 
 

plan, and lastly, puts forth an action plan outlining the processes, timelines and 
resource requirements, for delivery of a comprehensive plan to address the 
requirements of the Secretariat as a whole. 

 A summary of the resource requirements for the ECM, CRM and disaster 
recovery and business continuity proposals are presented in section IV of the report. 

 
 
 
 

Contents 
 Page

I. Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

II. Enterprise systems. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

A. Enterprise content management: managing the United Nations knowledge base . . . . . . . 4

1. Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

2. Enterprise content management goals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

3. Enterprise content management project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

4. Implementation plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

5. Update on current project activities (foundational phase) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

6. Planned project activities for 2010-2011 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

7. Funding requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

B. Customer relationship management: integrating global service delivery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

1. Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

2. Customer relationship management goals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

3. Customer relationship management project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

4. Update on current project activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27

5. Planned project activities for 2010-2011 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28

6. Funding requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29

III. Disaster recovery and business continuity planning: a unified approach for information and 
communications technology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30

A. Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30

B. Disaster recovery and business continuity goals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

C. Information and communications technology disaster recovery project. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

D. Implementation plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

E. Project funding requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

IV. Conclusions and summary of resources. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

V. Actions to be taken by the General Assembly. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41



 A/64/477
 

3 09-54436 
 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. In his report entitled “Investing in information and communications 
technology: information and communications strategy for the Secretariat” (A/62/793 
and Corr.1 and Add.1), the Secretary-General presented his vision of a “strong 
information and communications technology for a better United Nations”. To 
implement this vision, the Office of Information and Communications Technology 
was established in January 2009 and has committed to move towards a coherent 
environment of harmonized development and implementation of information and 
communications technology (ICT) systems.  

2. In a separate report entitled “Information and communications technology: 
enterprise systems for the United Nations Secretariat worldwide” (A/62/510/Rev.1), 
the Secretary-General presented proposals for the phased implementation and 
deployment of a new generation of enterprise systems, including an enterprise-wide 
system for managing the Organization’s information and knowledge (enterprise 
content management (ECM)) and an enterprise-wide system for managing day-to-
day services (customer relationship management (CRM)). Building an ICT 
architecture that can accommodate enterprise systems such as ECM, CRM and 
enterprise resource planning (ERP) is crucial because, while different in focus, these 
enterprise applications must work together to support the mission and programmatic 
activities of the Secretariat.  

3. In General Assembly resolutions 63/262 and 63/269, the need for appropriate 
disaster recovery and business continuity planning was emphasized. The Secretary-
General was also requested to consolidate systems in central data centres in order to 
strengthen disaster recovery and business continuity and to minimize the size of 
local primary and secondary data centres. 

4. The present report is submitted as a follow-up to earlier reports (A/62/477, 
A/62/510/Rev.1 and A/62/793 and Corr.1 and Add.1) and in response to General 
Assembly resolutions 63/262 and 63/269. The report provides an overall context for 
ECM, as the fundamental technological enabler for a knowledge management 
programme and a proposal for ongoing CRM initiatives. It realigns earlier proposals 
on disaster recovery and business continuity and presents an ICT framework and a 
programme of work for moving forward with a unified approach to disaster recovery 
and business continuity for Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters, the 
regional commissions, peacekeeping missions and special missions. 

5. The Office of Information and Communications Technology is currently 
undertaking a structural review of information technology in the Secretariat. This 
review will investigate the possibility of consolidating ICT units and changes in the 
structure and staffing levels of the Office. As the review is still under way, the 
present report has not proposed the establishment of posts while the optimal 
structure and staff levels are still under consideration. For the biennium 2010-2011, 
the human resources required for the projects in the report are proposed to be 
provided through general temporary assistance and contractual services. Any 
conversion of the general temporary assistance and contractual resources to posts 
would be proposed for consideration by the General Assembly following the 
outcome of the structural review.  
 
 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 4 
 

 II. Enterprise systems 
 
 

 A. Enterprise content management: managing the United Nations 
knowledge base 
 
 

 1. Background  
 

6. A number of the reports of the Secretary-General have highlighted the need for 
sharing information and knowledge within the Organization. Additionally, the 
General Assembly, in resolutions adopted during the sixty-third session (resolutions 
63/100, 63/248 and 63/262), has requested the Secretary-General and the Secretariat 
to enhance the technological infrastructure for the management of content; to take 
full advantage of new developments in information technology to improve, in a 
cost-effective manner, the expeditious dissemination of information on the United 
Nations; to ensure the compatibility of technologies used in all duty stations; to 
explore and report on best practices and lessons learned; and the Assembly has 
recognized the benefits of the implementation of ECM. 

7. In addition to the reports of the Secretary-General, other United Nations 
bodies have called for an emphasis on the use of knowledge-sharing techniques. A 
2006 report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services (OIOS) on the thematic 
evaluation of knowledge management networks in pursuit of the goals of the 
Millennium Declaration (E/AC.51/2006/2), called for a knowledge management 
strategy to be developed for the Secretariat, and asked that a unit focusing on 
knowledge management be designated (see also E/AC.51/2009/4). A 2007 report of 
the Joint Inspection Unit entitled, “Knowledge management in the United Nations 
system” (see A/63/140), included similar recommendations.  

8. Effective governance is crucial to supporting new approaches for knowledge-
sharing. A Working Group on Knowledge Management was set up in the second 
quarter of 2008 to take on the work previously undertaken by the Secretariat Task 
Force on Knowledge Sharing. Under the aegis of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology, participants from 14 departments and the secretariat 
of the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for Coordination work on the 
development of a knowledge management approach for the Organization. In 
addition, this Working Group serves as a catalyst to collaboration on the use of 
enterprise-wide applications such as enterprise content management. The Working 
Group is chaired by the Knowledge Management Service, created within the Office 
of Information and Communications Technology to implement the knowledge 
management programme and to plan and coordinate existing and new efforts to 
capture and share the Secretariat’s most important asset: its knowledge base.  

9. The report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services on the triennial review 
of the implementation of the recommendations made by the Committee for 
Programme and Coordination at its forty-sixth session on the thematic evaluation of 
knowledge management networks in the pursuit of the goals of the Millennium 
Declaration (E/AC.51/2009/4) noted that in December 2008, the General Assembly 
approved the ICT strategy for the United Nations Secretariat that comprehensively 
addresses knowledge management issues. In that report, OIOS concluded that the 
newly established Office of Information and Communications Technology 
Knowledge Management Service represents “a sufficient formal organizational 
structure and dedicated unit for knowledge management in the Secretariat”, and 



 A/64/477
 

5 09-54436 
 

considered the recommendation to have been implemented. At its forty-ninth 
session, the Committee for Programme and Coordination recommended to the 
General Assembly that it take note with appreciation the work done by the new 
Working Group on Knowledge Management under the leadership of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology.1 
 

 2. Enterprise content management goals 
 

10. The impact that the United Nations is able to make on the world is critically 
dependent upon the quality of the information it collects, collates and publishes, as 
well as the knowledge of its staff. Better communication networks, increased access 
to information owing to technological infrastructure, and the Internet, have changed 
the way the United Nations carries out its work. The potential for disseminating 
consolidated data and knowledge is enormous, but taking advantage of these 
untapped resources calls for a re-evaluation of the Secretariat’s information 
management work processes. Additionally, it requires change management and 
innovative approaches to enable United Nations stakeholders to carry out their work 
effectively. 

11. Critical components of the knowledge management programme include: 
providing the appropriate information technology tools, with ECM as the core 
system that will support the management of content and information; changing 
cumbersome processes; eliminating silos and championing collaboration; 
developing an approach to capture and use lessons learned; and setting up training 
programmes focusing on knowledge-sharing. To respond to the needs of United 
Nations stakeholders, new working methods are required to support the 
development of innovative products and services.  

12. By implementing ECM, the knowledge management programme will make 
more effective use of ICT to improve the ability of the United Nations to analyse, 
synthesize and present information, making it more accessible and more easily used 
by its different stakeholders around the world, and ensuring that accurate, trusted, 
and must-have information supports timely decision-making. The programme will 
also encourage the development of new knowledge-sharing skills and approaches 
including the adoption of Organization-wide standards and technology applications 
that facilitate working together.  

13. A substantial investment in organizational development and business process 
change is needed to ensure that the United Nations captures and uses its information 
effectively, with the support of information technology and knowledge management 
applications and policies.  

14. The present report focuses on ECM as the enabling component that will 
support the overall knowledge management programme for the Secretariat. 
 

 3. Enterprise content management project 
 

  Rationale  
 

15. The Secretariat has spent significant resources in the production, management 
and distribution of rapidly increasing amounts of documents and other information 

__________________ 

 1  See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 16 
(A/64/16), para. 71. 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 6 
 

in various formats. However, many of the processes and systems currently utilized 
in managing this information are ineffective, inefficient, redundant and vulnerable.  

16. The multiplicity of information systems in duty stations across the United 
Nations Secretariat has led to a patchwork of fragmented, support-intensive, home-
grown systems that are not efficient or sustainable. Too often, efforts are duplicated, 
and departments and offices use different approaches and technologies, with a 
variety of processes to manage information and content. Maintaining multiple tools 
has a direct impact on the Organization in terms of support costs that include 
hardware, software, administration, training and help desk support. Furthermore, 
this fragmented approach results in information silos and inconsistent policies on 
information management. As a result, United Nations stakeholders and staff have 
enormous difficulties in finding the information they need.  

17. The following three examples are used to illustrate some of the knowledge 
management issues facing the United Nations today:  

 (a) Websites. A number of reports and General Assembly resolutions have 
underlined the issues around management of United Nations websites, including the 
lack of governance and organizational branding, duplication of efforts, the 
multiplicity of web-authoring tools, the lack of coordination on domain names, and 
non-existent mechanisms for content approval and validation. While some offices 
will spend considerable resources to develop attractive and useful websites, others 
may assign responsibility for website creation to interns. As a result, the user 
experience is inconsistent, resulting in a fragmented presentation of the United 
Nations and its programmes;  

 (b) Official Documents System. Currently the processing and management of 
official documents is supported by several systems, including eDOC, UNBIS, 
LotusNotes databases, and the Official Documents System (ODS). Each application 
has been developed independently, generating duplicate and parallel processes, and 
resulting in significant inefficiencies. Separate systems have been developed to 
manage similar processes, at offices away from Headquarters.  

 (c) Records management. Records management capacity across the 
Organization has, in the past, been inconsistent, weak, and fragmented; a number of 
business units have no comprehensive records management practices in place. This 
has led, at times, to vulnerabilities and failures in accountability, transparency, 
information security, business continuity, and loss of institutional memory. The 
situation has improved over the past few years at Headquarters through the 
development and implementation of a framework of archives and record-keeping 
policies, best practice, standards, and guidance. The progressive implementation of 
this framework across the Organization will lead to reduced operating costs, 
improved efficiencies and productivity, and more informed decision-making; 
 

  Scope  
 

18. The Knowledge Management Service will plan and coordinate the approach 
for the deployment of ECM, in cooperation with the departments and offices of the 
Secretariat, as well as the field. As an enterprise system, ECM will benefit the entire 
Organization in the management of its information and knowledge, and will be 
governed by a set of policies. ECM modules will be made available to all duty 



 A/64/477
 

7 09-54436 
 

stations and field missions to either create and manage their own information or to 
access information created by other duty stations.  

19. Typically, an enterprise content management is comprised of a series of 
modules, including document management, records management, digital assets 
management, web content management and collaboration tools. In addition to these 
core modules, more specific components can be deployed for, inter alia, the 
management of correspondence, legal cases, and electronic forms. ECM allows an 
organization to perform a number of activities, as illustrated by figure I below. 
 

  Figure I 
Functions of an enterprise content management system 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

20. Enterprise content management will enable the Secretariat to manage more 
effectively and efficiently its intellectual assets, as well as the ever-increasing 
amount of content the Organization produces in a variety of media, such as official 
documents, records, websites, e-mail, photos, images and audio-visual materials. 
ECM will address the creation, capture, storage, preservation, and delivery of these 
diverse materials.  

21. The ICT strategy for the Secretariat includes many enterprise-wide projects, 
such as ERP (Umoja), and the CRM project. Because of the need for tight 
integration between enterprise systems, ECM will be implemented in a manner that 
integrates with CRM and ERP.  

22. Enterprise content management is a multi-year project, the deployment of 
which will be conducted over a five-year period. 
 

  Benefits 
 

23. Implementing ECM in the Secretariat will help to create a more effective 
Organization whose stakeholders will be better served. 

 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 8 
 

  Improved effectiveness 
 

24. Better and consolidated access to the United Nations body of information 
and knowledge. ECM will make information better organized, accessible, and 
searchable through the implementation of policies, standard taxonomies, common 
metadata2 and consistent labels. Consolidation of repositories, including ODS and 
websites, analysed real-time data, along with collaboration tools — including 
visualization tools, productivity-monitoring tools, dashboards — will allow for the 
sharing of collective knowledge and experience, as well as lessons learned. This 
results in: 

 (a) Faster decision-making, which, according to market research,3 can yield 
substantial savings;  

 (b) Staff time saved: according to industry estimates, managers may spend as 
much as 20 per cent of their time4 searching for information;  

 (c) Increased responsiveness of the Organization to external events as a 
result of having consolidated access to information. 

25. Improved management of organizational records. Together with the 
existing policies defined by the Archives and Records Management Section, the 
implementation of the ECM records management module will support the 
deployment of a Secretariat-wide records management programme based on record 
keeping best practices. This results in: 

 (a) Increased transparency and accountability. The improved traceability of 
its records will result in increased transparency in the business of the Organization, 
and enhance accountability;  

 (b) Support to business continuity programme. With the identification and 
protection of vital records, a critical component of business continuity planning will 
be ensured;  

 (c) Increased efficiencies. Expansion of the existing records management 
programme to all duty stations will increase efficiency as non-essential materials 
will be disposed of — thus eliminating the need for costly management and storage. 

26. Increased information security. By establishing clear ownership of content 
and audit trails of access and reuse of content, ECM will provide security for 
information assets and enable the Secretariat to ensure secure, remote access to 
relevant information to all stakeholders, including Member States, permanent 
missions, and staff. This results in: 

__________________ 

 2  A taxonomy is a particular classification, arranged in a hierarchical structure; it is an 
information management tool used to organize content and information. Metadata provide 
information about a certain item’s content; for example, a text document’s metadata may contain 
information about the document’s length, author, language and date of publication. 

 3  A March 2008 report by Cap Gemini United Kingdom entitled “The Information Opportunity” 
estimates the annual costs associated with making crucial business decisions without the correct 
information reduces performance by an average of 29 per cent (an annual £21 billion in 
administrative costs across the public sector). 

 4  According to a January 2007 online survey conducted by Accenture in large companies in the 
United States and the United Kingdom, “Managers spend up to two hours a day searching for 
information, and more than 50 per cent of the information they obtain has no value to them”. 



 A/64/477
 

9 09-54436 
 

 (a) Protection of confidential information. Access to information will only 
be granted following a proper authentication process; 

 (b) Information availability when and where needed. Ensuring secure access 
to information allows the provision of remote access at any time and place;  

 (c) Further supporting business continuity. Enhanced security provides the 
ability to access information during crises or when staff is travelling or on mission. 

27. Improved legacy knowledge capture. ECM will enable the coherent 
documenting of processes and the capture of best practices and lessons learned so 
that the work of the Secretariat is streamlined and preserved for future generations. 
ECM will provide the platform that will leverage work accomplished by some 
departments and offices in supporting communities of practice and systematically 
capturing lessons learned, such as the “Best Practices Toolbox”. This results in:  

 (a) Ensured retention of institutional memory. Such a repository allows staff 
to find historical experience, and to have access to properly managed records;  

 (b) Reduced duplication of organizational efforts. Such a repository allows 
staff to learn from and take advantage of the experience of others.  

28. Improved Internet presence. Improved organization of content, enhanced and 
consistent design and the use of the ECM web content management module will 
allow consistent, real-time updating and harmonization of design to address the 
problem of website fragmentation and inconsistent organizational branding. This 
results in: 

 Improved United Nations image. This will help to promote and advocate for 
the work and goals of the United Nations. 
 

  Increased efficiency 
 

29. Standardization and simplification of information creation and 
management. The ECM implementation will enable standardized and simple 
information creation across departments, offices and duty stations in the Secretariat. 
It will enable consolidated, coordinated approaches and streamlined processes for 
the creation and management of information. This results in: 

 (a) Better resource utilization. This will occur through the consolidation and 
reduction of technologies supported. Fewer resources in terms of staff and 
equipment will be required by avoiding duplicative technologies and it will be easier 
for stakeholders to determine which tools to use;  

 (b) Enable re-use of information and elimination of duplicate information. 
By supporting content re-use, ECM will allow staff to devote more time to ensuring 
consistency, accuracy, and timeliness of information, rather than duplicating efforts. 
Productivity gains in content re-use are supported by industry research.5 An 
example of this improvement is the portal for Member States, deleGATE which 
consolidates iSeek and other relevant content; 

__________________ 

 5  “A report from analyst firm IDC states that 70 per cent of enterprise content is recreated rather 
than reused, making companies spend two times the resources for one set of data.” Industry 
Week (1 June 2007). 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 10 
 

 (c) Increased accuracy of information. Changing information in one place 
will automatically initiate updates in other areas;  

 (d) Improved productivity of staff. The use of a common system across 
multiple functional groups will increase productivity. As staff move between 
departments and duty stations, using the same tools will save transition time and 
staff will have more time for other tasks. To illustrate, if 10,000 staff members save 
one hour of time a week using ECM, the United Nations would have per year an 
additional 660,000 hours, or 218 person-years, for other activities or doing essential 
activities in more depth. This benefit is supported by industry research;6  

 (e) Reduced storage requirements. ECM can reduce or avoid costs for many 
areas associated with paper filing, including the costs for storage space, materials 
(e.g., paper, folders, cabinets), and labour. In particular, ECM reduces the labour 
costs associated with the problem of misfiles that are common in paper files. 
Additionally, both paper and electronic storage of documents will be reduced 
through the elimination of redundant and obsolete content. This will be achieved by 
having consolidated and central access to various content repositories, and by 
ensuring timely disposal of obsolete content by embedding disposal or archiving 
rules in the process of creating content.  

30. The benefits and efficiency gains listed above will be built upon in subsequent 
years through the introduction of additional initiatives as part of the knowledge 
management programme, and the deployment of ECM. Such initiatives include 
portal technology (which will allow for personalized access to information), the 
management of multimedia assets, further improvements to the main United Nations 
website (http://www.un.org), and a comprehensive search mechanism for enterprise 
repositories.  
 

 4. Implementation plan  
 

31. The ECM project will be implemented in incremental phases. Following a 
foundational phase that has defined, inter alia, governance and technical 
infrastructure requirements, two phases are planned in 2010-2011.  

32. A collaborative approach is being taken to determine next steps in the 
deployment plan. New working models are being considered to ensure that the plan 
is developed as the result of a participatory process, jointly by the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology, offices at Headquarters and away 
from Headquarters, including the field. The approach includes delegating 
responsibility for the leadership of a particular ECM initiative to a duty station or 
office that has already developed a specific expertise in that area, such as web 
content management. Next steps in the ECM deployment will be determined jointly 
on the basis of priority needs, organizational readiness, and the availability of 
resources. As an enterprise system, ECM focuses on partnerships to ensure benefits 
to all staff regardless of their location, their occupational group, or the 
administrative unit in which they report.  

33. Setting up partnerships among departments and offices that share common 
needs for a particular module to be deployed will also be part of the implementation 
approach. For example, several departments such as the Departments of General 

__________________ 

 6  Gartner research report. 



 A/64/477
 

11 09-54436 
 

Assembly and Conference Management, Economic and Social Affairs, and Public 
Information at Headquarters, and also the United Nations Offices at Geneva, 
Nairobi and Vienna, as well as the regional commissions are stakeholders in the 
implementation of the document management module. By partnering in the 
implementation effort, limited resources will be leveraged and common approaches 
and standard processes will be ensured.  

34. The successful achievement of knowledge management objectives is closely 
linked to a number of key success factors. These include: 

 (a) Definition of the proper framework for the programme, including 
policies, procedures, technology and people; 

 (b) Integration of learning and knowledge capture processes with the 
technologies that enable knowledge; 

 (c) Identification of sponsors for ECM initiatives who can act as the liaison 
with the Office of Information and Communications Technology in developing and 
implementing its information and knowledge management strategy;  

 (d) Development of a communications and training strategy to support ECM 
initiatives, in close coordination with other organizational units, such as the Office 
of Human Resources Management and the Archives and Records Management 
Section of the Office of Central Support Services;  

 (e) Identification of target departments and offices for the start-up phase of 
the programme and identification of short-term wins to illustrate the potential of the 
programme. 

35. Additionally, implementing ECM requires a redefinition of roles and 
responsibilities to ensure that specialized staff skills are available. As noted by the 
Committee for Programme and Coordination at its forty-ninth session,7 a knowledge 
management programme is more than the development of new information 
technology tools. The specialized skills of substantive institutional learning 
managers, such as Best Practices Officers deployed in peacekeeping operations, and 
information managers will be necessary to properly identify, document, share and 
leverage information for increased performance. Similarly, the skills of information 
managers are needed to ensure that appropriate standards are followed to describe 
and record content in many different formats. Appropriate skills will also be 
necessary to handle change management, information architecture, website design, 
usability testing, taxonomy development, metadata management and corporate 
information quality both for specialized and cross-organizational content 
management systems. 

36. Finally, the ECM project will only be successful if it is supported by all the 
stakeholders that it will serve. While it is the responsibility of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology to develop and provide the 
appropriate platform for the management of content within the Secretariat, it will be 
the responsibility of the content owners to adopt and use this platform in their daily 
work.  
 

__________________ 

 7  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 16 (A/64/16). 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 12 
 

 5. Update on current project activities (foundational phase) 
 

37. The Office of Information and Communications Technology has been leading 
efforts to lay the foundation for the implementation of ECM systems. This includes 
defining the governance framework, the technical architecture, and the basic 
elements for the management of content, including metadata, taxonomy, and simple 
workflows. This foundational phase also included initial work on the definition of 
policies, standards and procedures to oversee and enable the global knowledge 
management programme.  

38. The ECM governance and programme management framework have identified 
required structures, policies, standards, roles and responsibilities for the coordinated 
implementation of ECM across Secretariat units. Further, the ECM road map has 
identified the main Enterprise Content Management priorities across major 
stakeholders and has proposed a sequence of implementation initiatives based on 
organizational priorities, business readiness and impact. Through the global 
deployment architecture, various architectural options to support the global 
deployment of ECM applications have been considered. 

39. The Office of Information and Communications Technology has ensured the 
participation of major stakeholders including: Archives and Records Management 
Section of the Office of Central Support Services, the Department of Economic and 
Social Affairs, the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, the 
Department of Peacekeeping Operations, the Department of Field Support, the 
Office of Human Resources Management, the Department of Public Information, 
including the Dag Hammarskjöld Library, OIOS, the Department for General 
Assembly and Conference Management, the United Nations Offices at Geneva, 
Nairobi and Vienna and the regional commissions. 

40. Core descriptive elements (metadata) and classification (taxonomy) which the 
Organization will use for all content types have been defined, with the goal of 
developing standard information management tools for the description and 
organization of content.  

41. In addition to some strategic initiatives of the knowledge management 
programme outlined in the report of the Secretary-General (A/62/793) that are 
already under way, a number of initiatives which constitute a first building block for 
all future initiatives, such as: (a) a correspondence management system for the 
Executive Office of the Secretary-General; (b) the production of iSeek news using 
the web content management module; and (c) the use of a collaboration tool, which 
allows teams to work collaboratively and share ideas and documents, by several 
units within the Secretariat. 

42. This collaboration tool has also been chosen as the replacement technology for 
Candiweb — the Member States-dedicated website that supports the work of 
election officers — as well as for the sharing of information by peace operations 
military staff, and medical personnel needing to jointly produce documents and 
share information on the H1N1 pandemic. The communities of practice established 
by the Department of Field Support in various specialized areas of peacekeeping 
have also demonstrated their knowledge-sharing potential, along with the Peace 
Operations Intranet, which provides a central repository for all peacekeeping 
policies and best practices materials. 
 



 A/64/477
 

13 09-54436 
 

 6. Planned project activities for 2010-2011 
 

43. A number of ECM initiatives have been identified and prioritized as part of the 
foundation work undertaken during the current biennium. These initiatives will be 
built upon incrementally such that achievable building blocks are included in the 
project plan, minimizing risk and accelerating the realization of benefits. Upon the 
completion of each initiative, a review and evaluation will allow for leveraging 
lessons learned and best practices for future initiatives. The next two phases, 
covering the period 2010-2011, are outlined in figure II below. 
 

Figure II  
Project timeline 

 Project timeline 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

44. Phase I, to be conducted throughout 2010, will focus on those initiatives and 
activities that would provide value for all Secretariat stakeholders. Phase II, which 
will be further articulated based on the results and lessons learned in phase I, will be 
conducted throughout 2011. This phase will increase the knowledge management 
capabilities and expand them further throughout the Secretariat. Table 1 below 
presents a summary of all planned activities, during the biennium 2010-2011 
irrespective of funding source, and presents the main project tracks and expected 
results following the implementation of each activity.  

45. For increased efficiency and effectiveness of peacekeeping operations, 
complementary projects for enterprise content management technology, outlined in 
the report of the Secretary-General (A/63/767 and Corr.1), will be funded from the 
2009-2010 support account for peacekeeping operations approved in resolution 
63/287. These projects will be implemented to address peacekeeping reporting 
process automation, replacement of the existing peacekeeping guidance content 
repository and enhancement of collaboration capabilities throughout field missions.  
 

Phase I Phase II



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 14 
 

Table 1  
Summary of planned project activities for 2010-2011 

 Phase I — 2010 Phase II — 2011 
Management 
track 
$873,700 

- Implement policies, procedures and standards 
under the coordination of the enterprise content 
management governance 
-Initiate communication plan as part of change 
management so that stakeholders can adapt to 
upcoming business process changes  
- Develop and initiate an organizational learning 
programme 
- Initiate the creation of interdepartmental 
partnerships with the building and enabling of 
centres of excellence  

- Continue to enable 
interdepartmental 
partnerships  
- Further execute the 
communication plan 
  
 

 Results:  
• Policies, procedures and standards will have been implemented to 

guide knowledge management practices 
• The execution of a communication plan as part of the change 

management process will be completed 
• The system of centres of excellence will have been determined and 

partnerships established  
Collaboration 
track 
$1,854,400 

- Increase the capacity of available technologies 
for collaboration 
- Retire duplicated collaboration tools and spread 
the use of a common collaboration tool eRoom 
and wiki technology 
- Collaborative wiki technologies will be 
introduced to capture the institutional knowledge 
of how to work at the United Nations, as the 
complement to the existing intranet, iSeek 
- Introduce systems to facilitate the management 
of correspondence and case management 
- Develop communities of practice 

- Extend the deployment 
of correspondence and 
case management tools  
- Improve search and 
social networking 
capability of the 
Organization 
- Further expand the 
communities of practice 
 
 

 Results: 
• Collaboration tool supporting knowledge capture (wiki) will be 

operational throughout the Secretariat 
• Implemented correspondence management tool in the Executive 

Office of the Secretary-General and several other organizational 
units 

• Situation reports implemented in field missions 
• Peacekeeping reporting framework and Guidance Content Repository 

initiatives implementeda 
• Case management introduced in OIOS, Department of Peacekeeping 

Operations/Department of Field Support Conduct and Discipline 
Unitsa 

• Communities of practice generalized throughout the Secretariat 
• Initial version of federated search introduced 
• Social networking implemented 

 
 

 a Funded through the Support Account (2009-2010). 



 A/64/477
 

15 09-54436 
 

Content 
management 
track 
$3,812,700 

- Enable Secretariat-wide web-based document 
storage as a replacement of shared drives, with 
check-in/check-out, versioning, search and simple 
workflows for managing content 
- Deploy the use of a common taxonomy and core 
metadata in the storage and retrieval so 
information is more findable across the 
organization 
- Enhance institutional records management and 
archival capabilities 
- Initiate migration of ODS content to ECM and 
enable document production and publishing 
process for official documents 

- Finalize the ODS 
migration 
- Initiate the expansion 
of capabilities of content 
management to 
departmental publishing 
- Improve workflow 
capabilities to include 
forms management and 
forms approval processes 
- Expand records 
management module 
deployment 

 Results:  
• A system for the basic management of content will be available to all 

departments, offices and field missions 
• Records management module deployed at United Nations 

Headquarters, field missions, and UN-Habitatb 
• Official Documents System migration completed 
• Document management module completed in New York 
• Departmental publishing introduced for the Department of Economic 

and Social Affairsc 
• Electronic forms management implemented 

Web content 
management 
track 
$2,876,800 

-Transform regional commission websites into 
rich, multimedia knowledge-sharing platforms 
with a consistent user interface with robust search 
and content management 
- Harness experience and knowledge gained in the 
replacement of the regional commission websites 
to initiate work on the replacement of the iSeek 
Intranet  

- Develop websites of 
other offices and 
department websites for 
more efficient and 
effective interaction 
between various 
stakeholders through 
newly designed and 
branded websites, 
working with standard 
templates, effective 
navigation, appropriate 
metadata, standardized 
procedures and fully 
featured workflows, and 
multilingual content 

 Results:  
• New websites developed for the five regional commissions, based on 

common templates 
• iSeek migration completed 
• Office and departmental website templates developed (United Nations 

Environment Programme,d United Nations Office at Nairobi) 

 
 

 b Funded through the Support Account (2009-2010) and extrabudgetary funding. 
 c To be funded by the Department. 
 d Extrabudgetary funding. 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 16 
 

Infrastructure 
management 
track 
$5,130,700 

Includes the implementation of ECM global 
infrastructure and related technologies, 
leveraging technology centres such as the 
United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, 
Italy, locations for business continuity and 
duty stations technology centres 

Expand the hubs and caching 
capabilities as required. 
Needed hardware and 
software will be administered, 
upgraded and installed as 
appropriate 

 Results:  
• Infrastructure will be in place for Brindisi, including disaster 

recovery 
• Regional hubs and caching mechanisms will be in place  

 
 

46. Following the deployment of phases I and II, future initiatives will focus upon 
further implementing the ECM modules, and the knowledge management 
programme. This includes managing multimedia assets, expanding the benefit of 
web content management as it relates to the website http://www.un.org — 
leveraging the work accomplished on the regional commissions and departmental 
websites. Future phases will also include a comprehensive search mechanism for 
enterprise repositories, the introduction of portal technology, and of social 
networking.  
 

 7. Funding requirements 
 

47. Implementing, deploying, maintaining and enabling ECM that supports all 
Secretariat stakeholders is a significant undertaking and resource requirements 
should not be underestimated. It is expected that the full ECM deployment will take 
up to five years of project implementation, coordination, change management and 
training.  

48. Enterprise content management will support the whole Secretariat, including 
Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters, regional commissions and political 
and peacekeeping missions. Accordingly, the enterprise content management is 
proposed for funding from the regular budget for the initial implementation across 
the Secretariat, including offices away from Headquarters and the regional 
commissions, while the support account would fund implementation at 
peacekeeping missions. All activities relating to peacekeeping missions (specific 
projects and roll-out of central solutions) were included under the report of the 
Secretary-General on the budget for the support account for 2009-2010 (A/63/767 
and Corr.1) and hence does not duplicate the request of resources in the present 
report. The project implementation for the Department of Peacekeeping 
Operations/Department of Field Support will be conducted in coordination with the 
work done for ECM in general. If, in the future, departments find that systems that 
support their functional responsibilities may be improved by further ECM 
initiatives, the Office of Information and Communications Technology will partner 
with those departments and work to extend the project to serve the rest of the 
Secretariat and seek funding, as appropriate.   

49. The funding requirements in this report are for the first two years of the 
implementation plan for United Nations Headquarters, offices away from 
Headquarters and regional commissions and represents the funding required to 
implement the core technical infrastructure, many of the key application capabilities 
and the overall management procedures and guidance to enable a coordinated 
approach to ECM. The overall estimated cost of the ECM implementation under the 



 A/64/477
 

17 09-54436 
 

proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011 is $14,548,300 as 
indicated in table 2 below. 
 

  Table 2 
Summary of net resource requirements (total project budget at 2008-2009 rates) 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 

Object of expenditure Current estimate 

Other staff costs 3 218.8 

Travel 269.5 

Contractual services 8 066.4 

General operating expenses 1 338.3 

Supplies and materials 22.0 

Furniture and equipment 1 633.3 

 Total 14 548.3 
 
 

50. The work related to ECM has been organized into five tracks, as mentioned in 
table 1 above. The management track ensures that the necessary policies, 
procedures, standards and oversight are in place and that the ECM work is 
coordinated by the Working Group on Knowledge Management. The collaboration 
track covers work related to enabling collaboration capabilities for the Secretariat. 
The content management track relates to management of official documents, 
publications and records. The web content management track is related to 
management of information for websites, including the Intranet. The infrastructure 
track covering the implementation of the necessary global technical infrastructure to 
ensure the content managed by ECM is readily available to stakeholders.  

51. Management track. This track, amounting to $873,700, will address change 
management and organizational learning for ECM so that stakeholders can adapt to 
the changes needed for the implementation of ECM in a controlled and effective 
way. One of the most critical functions will be enabling interdepartmental 
partnerships with the building of centres of excellence and virtual teams throughout 
the Secretariat. In addition there will be training for the other tracks, which will be 
led from the management track. Of the above amount: 

 (a) $590,400 is proposed for general temporary assistance for 1 P-4 and 
1 P-3 for 24 months each. The P-4 would work with the Working Group on 
Knowledge Management, departments and other governance bodies to develop and 
implement policies, guidelines, standards and to coordinate all management aspects 
and align other ECM initiatives. This will also involve developing a coordinated 
training programme in support of the project. The P-3 is required to perform training 
and developing training materials for training workshops, train the trainer, online 
training for distance learning and just-in-time training, self-paced training, user 
guides and technical documentation; 

 (b) $7,200 is required for contractual services for service level agreement 
charges for technology and communication services associated with general 
temporary assistance positions detailed above; 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 18 
 

 (c) $118,600 is required for non-post costs such as rent, alterations, furniture 
and information and communications charges associated with the general temporary 
assistance positions detailed above, comprising $98,800 under general operating 
expenses, $2,000 under supplies and materials and $17,800 under furniture and 
equipment; 

 (d) Travel in the amount of $157,500 is required for 22 trips for gathering, 
training and project coordination and management.  

52. Collaboration track. This track would amount to $1,854,400 for the 
implementation of a collaboration platform to improve the sharing of information 
across the Organization, and facilitate the work of cross-functional teams, improve 
process efficiencies, provide enterprise search capabilities and social networking. It 
also includes a case management system to be used for the collection, submission, 
querying, retrieving, monitoring and reporting of information related to cases being 
investigated by various entities such as OIOS, the Administrative Law Unit of the 
Office of Human Resources Management and the Office of the Administration of 
Justice. For correspondence, a system will be implemented to ensure quality and 
efficiency of correspondence management, with accurate tracking and reporting, 
while ensuring compliance, integrity and authenticity of information. Of the above 
amount: 

 (a) $590,400 is proposed for general temporary assistance for 1 P-4 and 
1 P-3 for 24 months each to develop, coordinate, lead and implement the 
programme related to information-sharing, correspondence management, case 
management, social networking, search and other collaboration initiatives; 

 (b) Approximately $1,026,800 would be required in total under contractual 
services. An amount totalling $1,012,400 would be required for ECM experts to be 
utilized to conduct requirement gathering workshops, write design documents for 
the applications, provide programming expertise, conduct system testing, and 
develop technical documentation. A provision of $14,400 is required for contractual 
services for service level agreement charges for technology and communication 
services associated with the general temporary assistance positions detailed above;  

 (c) A provision of $237,200 is required for the non-post costs such as rent, 
alterations, furniture and information and communications charges associated with 
the general temporary assistance positions and the contractors detailed above 
estimated at $197,600 under general operating expenses, $4,000 under supplies and 
materials and $35,600 under furniture and equipment.  

53. Content management track. This track, in the amount of $3,812,700, will 
enable the development and deployment of multiple initiatives related to content 
management. A records management system will ensure standardization in the 
processing of archives and records across the United Nations Secretariat, and will 
provide capabilities to define retention and disposition schedules, allow for 
traceability of records, and ensure appropriate security and preservation of critical 
records. It includes an initiative for the migration of the existing ODS into the ECM 
platform to ensure a centralized, robust platform, based on a standard taxonomy and 
metadata model, accessible with the appropriate privileges. Further, a platform 
would be included for the authoring of parliamentary documents, ensuring that 
standard preparation processes are followed, streamlined workflows are introduced, 
and allowing for the tracking of documents. A publishing initiative is also envisaged 



 A/64/477
 

19 09-54436 
 

that will standardize production methods, codify workflows, integrate collaboration 
tools, expand opportunities for peer review, streamline clearance procedures, and 
ensure the availability and integrity of publication assets. Requirements for this 
track would provide for: 

 (a) $857,200 under general temporary assistance for 1 P-4 and 2 P-3 for 
24 months each to lead the overall coordination and facilitate the business aspects of 
the content management initiatives, to work closely with the Archives and Records 
Management Section of the Office of Central Support Services and the business 
areas to ensure the proper implementation of records management and enable its 
systematic use within departments and to coordinate with departments on their 
document authoring needs to ensure the alignment is in place with the ECM 
platform and coordinating the migration of existing ODS content into a new 
repository based on ECM technologies;  

 (b) A total provision of $2,481,100 in contractual service services. An 
amount totalling $2,452,300 would be required for ECM experts, to be used to 
conduct requirements gathering workshops, write design documents for the 
applications, provide programming expertise, conduct system testing, and develop 
technical documentation. A provision $28,800 is required for contractual services 
for service level agreement charges for technology and communication services 
associated with the general temporary assistance positions detailed above; 

 (c) $474,400 would be required for the non-post costs such as rent, 
alterations, furniture and information and communications charges associated with 
the general temporary assistance positions and the contractors detailed above, 
comprising $395,200 for general operating expenses, $8,000 for supplies and 
materials and $71,200 for furniture and equipment. 

54. Web content management track. This track amounts to $2,876,800 and 
relates to the development and deployment of a platform that will allow for the 
creation of harmonized web content for the regional commissions and departmental 
websites. It will codify content workflows, facilitate multilingual content 
generation, promote integration of content and improve inter-site navigation. 
Furthermore, it will help to control brand proliferation through the use of standard 
templates and provide an efficient role-based access control system for content 
creation and management. It will also provide for the replacement of iSeek with a 
two-way interactive environment with wiki capabilities for Intranet information. 
The provision of $2,876,800 relates to: 

 (a) $857,200 under general temporary assistance for 1 P-4 and 2 P-3 
positions for 24 months each to lead, coordinate and facilitate the work on the 
regional commission website template development and implementation; to gather 
requirements during that phase of the initiative, and to train and support the users of 
the system who create websites using the tools and to interface with consultants 
involved in the requirements gathering and application development; 

 (b) A total provision of $1,424,500 in contractual services. An amount 
totalling $1,399,300 would provide for ECM experts to conduct requirement 
gathering workshops, write design documents for the applications, provide 
programming expertise, conduct system testing, and develop technical 
documentation. A provision of $25,200 is required for contractual services for 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 20 
 

service level agreement charges for technology and communication services 
associated with general temporary assistance positions detailed above; 

 (c) $415,100 for non-post costs such as rent, alterations, furniture and 
information and communications charges associated with the general temporary 
assistance positions and the contractors detailed above, comprising $345,800 for 
general operating expenses, $7,000 for supplies and materials and $62,300 for 
furniture and equipment; 

 (d) A further $180,000 under furniture and equipment would also be required 
to acquire the enterprise-level software to ensure proper evaluation of website 
performance and allow for appropriate reporting on website usage.  

55. Infrastructure management track. This track would amount to $5,130,700 
and cover the necessary technical server and software infrastructure to make ECM 
capabilities readily available for all stakeholders. The estimates are based on the 
current infrastructure capabilities in the Secretariat and will utilize the existing 
telecommunications and computer operations for all offices of the Secretariat. The 
primary ECM site will be operated from the United Nations Logistics Base (UNLB) 
at Brindisi, Italy. With content management applications, the files can be quite large 
and in order to provide adequate performance for the stakeholders, there is a need 
for regional hubs and caching mechanisms. There will be additional infrastructure in 
other locations to support the regional needs of the Organization. The entire 
technical infrastructure will work in a coordinated and federated environment with 
local support, overseen by centralized management. This amount comprises the 
following: 

 (a) $323,600 for one general temporary assistance position at the P-4 level 
for 24 months to coordinate the global implementation and administration of the 
ECM software around the world. This includes the major hubs and caching servers 
around the world, and working with local staff to properly administer them; 

 (b) Contractual services totalling $3,126,800 consisting of: 

 (i) $933,700 for professional services to properly design, configure, install 
and support the hardware and software components;  

 (ii) $1,084,000 for network storage services;  

 (iii) $1,105,500 for maintenance costs of the ECM software licences. 
Licences for peacekeeping operations are not included as they were budgeted 
in the 2009-2010 support account budget approved in General Assembly 
resolution 63/287; 

 (iv) $3,600 is required for contractual services for service level agreement 
charges for technology and communication services associated with the 
general temporary assistance position detailed above; 

 (c) Travel in the amount of $112,000 is required for the planning, installation 
and upgrade of the technical environment. This involves four trips each year for two 
people from the project team to and from Brindisi and offices away from 
Headquarters and the regional commissions;  

 (d) A total provision of $1,266,400 under furniture and equipment is required 
to acquire and maintain the necessary hardware equipment to support the various 
offices away from Headquarters and regional commissions ($1,257,500) and the 



 A/64/477
 

21 09-54436 
 

costs associated with the furniture and equipment for the general temporary 
assistance position detailed above ($8,900); 

 (e) $300,900 is required for the general operating expenses such as rent, 
alterations and maintenance of equipment and $1,000 is required for supplies and 
materials. 
 
 

 B. Customer relationship management: integrating global 
service delivery 
 
 

 1. Background 
 

56. Customer relationship management consists of the processes and supporting 
technology a large organization uses to track and organize its customer information. 
The CRM system is used to support and store the customer interactions which can 
be accessed by the providers of services as well as the users of services in the 
organization. A successful CRM effort includes not only software implementation 
but also improvements in work processes to manage the provision of services.  

57. Customer relationship management at the United Nations Secretariat is a key 
element of the resource management programme, which is one of the three strategic 
programmes of the ICT strategy report (A/62/793 and Corr.1 and Add.1). The CRM 
initiative seeks to implement service-delivery and workflow-based applications to 
improve the handling of the numerous day-to-day services and the effective 
management of United Nations resources related to service management. 

58. The primary objective of CRM is to improve the quality and cost-effectiveness 
of services provided to end-users, which includes a wide range of customers and 
constituents, including Member States and other stakeholders as well as the external 
organizations and the public (see A/62/510/Rev.1). Recognizing the benefits of the 
implementation of CRM, the General Assembly, in section III of its resolution 
63/262, requested the Secretary-General to continue to implement those applications 
throughout the Secretariat, as appropriate. 

59. The present report provides an overview of the current and intended use of 
CRM in the Secretariat as requested by the General Assembly. It outlines the CRM 
plans under which the Office of Information and Communications Technology has 
begun to implement the various improvement efforts. The report further outlines 
project opportunities across the Secretariat, including initiatives that form the scope 
of the investment requested for the next biennium.  
 

 2. Customer relationship management goals 
 

60. Customer relationship management is an enterprise-wide approach to not only 
acquire and use knowledge about customers, but also to improve and automate the 
business processes that deliver value to the Organization’s customers. 

61. The vision of the CRM project is to create an Organization-wide common 
service management framework that provides improved services with greater 
efficiency and effectiveness to the end-customers. The goal of the project is to 
implement this framework by providing an integrated technology platform for 
managing the service delivery life cycle based on standardized business processes 
and leveraging industry best practices such as Information Technology 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 22 
 

Infrastructure Library (ITIL) and International Organization for Standardization 
(ISO) standard 20000. 

62. Information Technology Infrastructure Library is a set of concepts and policies 
for managing information technology (IT) infrastructure, development and 
operations. It is essentially a collection of volumes detailing a number of 
“disciplines” and processes for IT Service Management. While ITIL offers 
individual certification, ISO 20000 is an organizational certification. As an 
internationally recognized standard, ISO 20000 provides ICT good practices for 
managing and improving ICT. It also provides auditors with a documented standard 
to use for measuring ICT compliance with ISO standards. 

63. The combination of policies, processes, and strategies implemented by the 
Secretariat will unify its customer interactions across various channels and enable 
uninterrupted service provision. The future state of accessing any service from 
anywhere using any channel can be illustrated in figure III below. 
 
 

  Figure III 
Global customer interaction with customer relationship management 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

64. While the ERP (Umoja) system will streamline and automate the core 
financial, administrative and management operations of the Secretariat, the CRM 
system will deal with the specific processes connected with providing day-to-day 
services for end-users. There is no overlap. The selected CRM software is also 
compatible with the ERP software to be implemented and will integrate with it.  
 



 A/64/477
 

23 09-54436 
 

 3. Customer relationship management project  
 

  Rationale 
 

65. The current practices of various service providers in the Secretariat are 
described below and are typical of organizations that realize the need for initiating 
change. 
 

  Silo operations 
 

66. Each service delivery group provides independent services for various 
functions such as ICT support, administrative support for operations in human 
resources, travel services, payroll, insurance, and also provides diverse services to 
Member States and agencies. This has led to each business unit or department 
following their own approach to service delivery and maintaining independent 
applications and support centres. This lack of an Organization-wide view of service 
delivery and the presence of multiple providers and purchasers has increased the 
risk of inefficiencies in the Secretariat and sub-optimal procurement of common 
services. The disparate service providers, following their own processes and 
standards, subject customers to different processes and response times for services 
such as movements, ICT services, insurance, tax, and so on. 

67. Redundant and inconsistent information. Silos across the Secretariat create 
different standards for the amount of data needed for a service often requiring 
similar information by each service. The customer may need to repeat the same 
information for each new service request with each different service provider. For 
example, while one service desk may require several pieces of information, another 
service desk providing the same service in a different office may require only part of 
that information. This disparity also creates issues when consolidating data about 
the customer at the enterprise level.   

68. Poor visibility of the service delivery status. Many departments and offices 
work with a transactional mindset rather than being customer-centric (focused on 
customer expectations, needs and satisfaction). Customers do not have a consistent 
view of how their service request is being handled. Customer-focused service 
providers should have a history of the customer requests and use this knowledge to 
fulfil the customer’s needs based on this holistic view (i.e., not just on the last 
interaction). 

69. Lack of communication. The silo environments and non-standard service 
processes create obstacles for communication between service providers. In the 
example of a new staff member joining an organization, a multitude of 
communications (phone, e-mail, fax and in-person visit) and multiple service 
requests occur simply owing to the lack of the sharing of common information. 
Ideally, in a customer-centric environment, on-boarding a new staff member would 
require one initial event from the customer’s perspective that automatically triggers 
requests to all related service providers of the event.  

70. Inconsistent business processes and customer experience. Working in 
organizational and process silos and having different applications to manage day-to-
day activities has resulted in complex, multiple-provider environments and different 
customer experience across channels, thereby resulting in a higher degree of 
inefficiencies across the Secretariat. Customer experience varies greatly depending 
on the business unit or department. 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 24 
 

71. Without the implementation of consolidated service delivery in CRM, the 
Secretariat may be exposed to the following risks: 

 (a) Higher cost of maintaining silo service desks. The individual service 
groups operate with inconsistent processes that result in large gaps in overall user 
satisfactions as shown by the organization-wide ICT survey. The Organization is 
burdened by higher costs associated with the maintenance of the different 
applications and business processes that are used and managed by the separate 
service group; 

 (b) Reduced flexibility for changes across IT and facilities service delivery. 
Current silo processes demand that any Organization-wide changes to business 
organization or structures create a large amount of additional work for each separate 
group to make the necessary application, data and business process changes. New 
sets of United Nations standard operating procedures and training would need to be 
created and communicated to the separate service groups. Repetitive work would 
need to be done by each individual service group to accommodate their 
organization’s service delivery method; 

 (c) No transparent reporting on service delivery and customer satisfaction 
across IT and facilities provider organizations. Different metrics and reports are 
created across service groups in order to evaluate the service delivery standards and 
customer satisfaction. Functional managers are unable to see easily a complete 
picture of the service delivery, issues, and cost risks across the service groups for 
common services. Obtaining an organization view on the delivery levels for a 
specific service would be very labour intensive in terms of collecting and analysing 
the data; 

 (d) Lack of standard service processes means reduced ability to rotate or 
replace resources. The ability to rotate resources, based on needs and emergency 
situations, is hindered by the training and learning curve that needs to be done for 
the different service groups. With different processes in place for providing the 
same service, transferred resources must be retrained on new applications and 
business processes and rules, which requires additional time and cost; 

 (e) Lower customer satisfaction owing to a lack of customer-focused service 
providers. The CRM programme drives a service mindset focused on customer 
information and efficient use of that information. Maintaining existing inefficient 
processes and technologies will continue the current low levels of user satisfaction; 

 (f) Lower productivity from slower provision of services. Current delivery 
time will remain and there will not be opportunities to improve the current 
operations. The proposed CRM improvements in service delivery will have an 
increased impact on user productivity.  
 

  Scope 
 

72. In order to achieve the CRM goal, the plan is to consolidate, over a period of 
time, service types based on a common solution. The first initiative, branded as 
“iNeed”, seeks to consolidate ICT services and facilities services. The initial 
deployment of iNeed is limited to the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology, Department of Field Support, UNLB at Brindisi, the United Nations 
Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL), the United Nations Mission in Liberia 
(UNMIL) and the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) for 



 A/64/477
 

25 09-54436 
 

automating ICT services, and to the Department of Management (Facilities 
Management Service) for facilities services. This initial deployment by the end of 
2009, is proposed to be followed by roll-outs of this baseline product for the offices 
away from Headquarters over the next two to three years, resulting in the global 
adoption of ITIL and ISO 20000 standards. Throughout the consolidation process, 
there will be opportunities to work on automating additional service types. 
Consolidation of other service types, such as travel services, human resources and 
conference services will be taken up gradually, depending on the capacity to 
consolidate as well as the urgency for the replacement of current systems supporting 
such types of service. 

73. The consolidation of every service type will follow a standard but phased 
approach: 

 (a) Standardize business processes. This will seek to gain the benefits of 
common enterprise processes regardless of the department or office; 

 (b) Consolidate technology platform. This is critical in order to address data 
inconsistencies and drive an efficient operating platform to support the customer 
access channels and business processes; 

 (c) Regional consolidation. This step is to ensure that regional 
implementations take advantage of time zone and travel opportunities; 

 (d) Global consolidation. This is the final stage to ensure common global 
processes with standardized events and supported by common technology. 

74. Another key constituency for the CRM system is the permanent missions. By 
leveraging the CRM system’s functional capabilities related to relationship and 
service management, the Secretariat will explore the possibility of building a 
Member States service management capacity from both the Headquarters and field 
perspectives. The project’s initial focus will be on analysing the interaction of 
Member States with the Secretariat, recognizing the various points of contact and 
doing a preliminary analysis to identify the feasible areas for improvement through 
automation. The intent would be to deliver business value using the service 
management framework in consultation with Member States, through the Economic 
and Social Council Working Group on Informatics, which has been advocating such 
efforts. 
 

  Benefits 
 

75. The new service delivery framework of CRM will result in improvements in 
the day-to-day operations of the service providers throughout the Secretariat. In 
turn, this will increase the efficiency and satisfaction of the customers, who receive 
services from the Secretariat. 

76. Customer relationship management improves the quality and cost-
effectiveness of services provided to end-users. By aligning technology investments 
with the expected higher standards of service delivery, it will result in the following 
benefits. 
 

  Increased efficiency 
 

77. Efficient delivery of services. Implementation of CRM will help to 
standardize and simplify the business processes across multiple service providers 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 26 
 

and locations in the Secretariat. With this standardization of processes and 
technology, there is an opportunity to develop a unified global service desk standard 
and services catalogue. This approach can be used to streamline demands from 
customers, service levels from providers and support visibility of delivery costs 
across the Secretariat.  

78. Reduced operational costs. Eliminating ageing service tracking and delivery 
applications reduces the number of technologies to be supported. Having a common 
technology platform across multiple service groups also allows easier data exchange 
between the service providers and reduces the overall service delivery time. In 
addition, standardizing software on a common platform across the Secretariat lowers 
the total cost of licence ownership, allows better support across geographic 
locations and reduces hardware costs relative to having multiple platforms. The 
process and technology platform of CRM currently being implemented can be 
reused, and it will expedite, and lower the costs of, subsequent implementations 
across the Secretariat. 

79. Improved demand management. Continuous optimization of processes can 
help to partially absorb expected increases in future demand without a 
corresponding increase in the current number of agents working in service 
management. 

80. Increased staff productivity. The availability of the self-service technology 
will minimize manual processes and increase staff productivity. It will allow Web 
access from anywhere and self-directed issue tracking at anytime. As this is the 
lowest cost-delivery channel, self-service will reduce costs of service delivery for a 
proportion of demand that is straight-forward and does not need live person support.  

81. Potential cost savings: 

 (a) After consolidating 25 service desks into one,8 a global 
telecommunications company realized a 30 per cent reduction in mean time to 
repair, a 60 per cent reduction in unplanned downtime; 

 (b) A billion-dollar energy supplier cut service desk costs from $89 to $57 
per hour; 

 (c) A leading financial services firm retired 40 service desk tools, reduced 
case volumes up to 80 per cent, and, in the first six months, reduced the change-to-
incident ratio by 10 per cent; 

 (d) Much like these companies, the United Nations Secretariat will achieve 
high return on investment in the processes, technology and resources that enable 
service excellence over a period of time. Expected benefits from the Customer 
Relationship Management project are estimated at 10 per cent gain in productivity 
of “service agents” through reduced time taken to process service requests, and an 
average of 10 minutes saved per incident for both staff and agent by using self-
service.  
 

  Improved effectiveness 
 

82. Process improvements. With the future deployment of a common technology 
platform, business processes will become standardized and streamlined with the 

__________________ 

 8  “Service desk consolidation cuts costs and increases service quality”, BMC Industry Insights. 



 A/64/477
 

27 09-54436 
 

implementation of ITIL, an industry best practice. It will also provide the added 
benefit of business continuity that mitigates risk due to interruptions in service. 

83. Improved service effectiveness. The common technology platform will 
provide management with the ability to report and analyse information better across 
service providers and services provided. This will lead to better decisions being 
made about services to be offered to different customers and resources needed to 
provide them. In addition, the self-service portal on the CRM platform will enable 
service 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and will provide up-to-date information 
regarding a customer’s service requests.  

84. Increased customer satisfaction. Consistent use of customer data across the 
Secretariat will increase information quality. The CRM project will help eliminate 
redundant data maintenance across service providers and ensure that the providers 
have a single view of the customer. As the process and technology platform are 
consolidated and standardized, the customer touch points (channels) will also be 
simplified across service providers. This improved knowledge of customer needs 
will improve customer-provider relationships.  

85. The benefits of providing a common ICT and facilities service management 
platform will begin to be realized once iNeed is deployed. The return on investment 
of this type of project will be achieved once the development is completed, and the 
project is fully stabilized in its maintenance stage (1-2 years after initial 
deployment). The benefits of the common service management framework will be 
realized beyond the Department of Management, the Department of Field Support 
and the Office of Information and Communications Technology once iNeed is 
implemented for offices away from Headquarters during 2010-2011. 
 

 4. Update on current project activities 
 

86. Currently, the main initiative of the CRM project is iNeed, which is an 
enterprise solution using the Oracle Siebel technology platform. The first phase of 
the initiative consists of (a) standardizing processes of the ICT service desks of the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology and the Department of Field 
Support, UNLB, UNIFIL, UNMIL and MINUSTAH; and (b) consolidating these 
Service Desks on one common technology platform. The first phase also includes 
Facilities Service Desk under the Facilities Management Service of the Department 
of Management. 

87. iNeed will replace the existing legacy systems that are used to manage service 
requests, incident tracking, and inventories of technology and facility assets. It will 
also automate manual processes that are currently in practice. For example, an 
e-mail sent to the Service Desk will automatically be converted to a ticket in the 
new application. 

88. During the initial requirement gathering phase, four core service delivery 
processes (i.e., incident management, problem management, requests for service, 
and configuration management) were identified as the priority areas for the initial 
implementation of iNeed. In addition, project management for special events is also 
included for Facilities Services Desk. Examples of these processes include 
requesting a new desktop or a conference room for a meeting, reporting an issue 
with e-mail or a broken light bulb, requesting a departmental move or hosting a 
seminar during a General Assembly session. 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 28 
 

89. Extensive workshops with representation from each of the seven service desks 
were conducted to gather detailed requirements for the new system. All the business 
groups agreed to follow harmonized business processes that are ITIL compliant.  

90. Following the requirement gathering phase, the functional and technical design 
of the system was performed, which involved many more working sessions with the 
business community to agree on proposed solutions. Subsequently, the project team 
has been configuring the application and developing new reports based on the 
agreed design. The design of iNeed has been presented to the business groups and 
their feedback is being used to fine-tune the application prior to it being deployed.  

91. The development effort on iNeed is currently going through intensive 
integration testing, to be followed by user testing and training, with the go-live 
scheduled for the last quarter of 2009. Following this initial deployment, a 
self-service portal will be implemented around the second quarter of 2010, for 
unified customer service for ICT and facility services resulting in productivity 
gains.  

92. The General Assembly approved $4,029,500 in the support account for 
peacekeeping operations for 2009-2010 for new CRM initiatives, managing troop 
contributions and the billing of telecommunications services (see A/63/767 and 
Corr.1). Using the common CRM solution, the service delivery processes of these 
operations would be automated to ensure that information moves transparently 
through the Organization effectively and efficiently.  
 

 5. Planned project activities for 2010-2011 
 

93. The future phases of iNeed will include the deployment of ICT and facilities 
service desks at offices away from Headquarters and the remaining ICT service 
desks at United Nations Headquarters. Its progressive deployment across the offices 
of the Secretariat will align all duty stations to the same quality standard. This 
initiative will assist the entire Secretariat to increase the standard of its service 
management and, as a direct result, the customers will enjoy higher service delivery 
from the internal service providers.  

94. In 2010-11, the plan is to: 

 (a) Operate, maintain and stabilize iNeed; 

 (b) Implement self-service; 

 (c) Deploy iNeed in five duty stations, which are to be determined before the 
end of 2009;  

 (d) Begin analysing the next service type to be deployed using iNeed. 

95. A successful CRM implementation needs to consider three important variables: 
people, processes and technology. The key factors to CRM project success are the 
following: 

 (a) Definition of success. Measurable expected objectives need to be set and 
results should be evaluated periodically to gauge the progress against the project 
goals to implement necessary adjustments; 

 (b) Top management support. Since a CRM project is a strategic initiative, 
top management must actively support it. Management buy-in is essential, and the 



 A/64/477
 

29 09-54436 
 

support message should be communicated down to the users. If the leaders of the 
Organization believe in the benefits the strategy can deliver, it will diminish 
resistance to change; 

 (c) User involvement. Actively involving the users from the beginning of the 
project will increase the users’ acceptance of the new way of working. The sense of 
ownership generated by their involvement can significantly boost enthusiasm for the 
solution and its acceptance; 

 (d) Phased approach. A successful CRM project should follow a phased 
deployment schedule with each phase focused on a specific business objective and 
designed to produce meaningful results in a reasonable amount of time. Building 
momentum and enthusiasm will instil confidence that the long-term goal can indeed 
be reached; 

 (e) Ongoing efforts. Customer Relationship Management is not an event that 
ends when a technology project is rolled out, but an ongoing, ever-changing 
business programme that is an integral part of the Organization’s customer-centric 
business strategy. The success of the CRM project should also be continually 
monitored and measured long after it is initially rolled out. 
 

 6. Funding requirements 
 

96. In application development, both institutional knowledge and technological 
knowledge are required to deliver solutions satisfying the customers’ needs. 
Although the iNeed initiative was initially outsourced to external vendors due to the 
induction of a new technology, internal resources have taken over the project as of 
2009. In order to pursue its successful path, the CRM project would need to 
continue to build its internal resources, specifically project management, process, 
technical and infrastructure architects, to manage its governance and deployment.  

97. The funding requirement estimates in this report are to continue with the 
support of the iNeed system in production, development of the self-service portal 
and deployment of iNeed to five ICT and facility service desks at offices away from 
Headquarters. The overall estimated cost of the iNeed development, deployment and 
maintenance is in the amount of $4,433,000 as indicated in table 3 below: 
 

  Table 3 
Summary of net resource requirements (total project budget at 2008-2009 rates) 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 
 

Object of expenditure Current estimate 

Other staff costs 1 286.8 

Travel 70.0 

Contractual services 2 419.2 

General operating expenses 440.4 

Supplies and materials 10.0 

Furniture and equipment 206.6 

 Total 4 433.0 
 
 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 30 
 

98. An amount totalling $1,286,800 is proposed for general temporary assistance 
to provide for one P-4, two P-3 and two P-2 positions for 24 months each for 
management of the application infrastructure design and implementation. This 
resource will also manage the application configuration as well as the day-to-day 
maintenance activities, work with the business communities to perform process gap 
analysis, functional flow design, functional usability documentation, application 
testing and user communication activities and assist with the technical design and 
specifications documentation and unit testing of the development application.  

99. Travel in the amount of $70,000 is required for facilitating workshops and user 
training for each deployment in an office away from Headquarters.  

100. An amount totalling $2,419,200 is requested for contractual services. An 
amount of $2,383,200 is required for specialized contractual services for the project. 
The resources will be used for project management as well as for functional work 
such as end-user training, data cleansing, import and migration activities as well as 
the data integration and ongoing assistance to the user community. A further 
$36,000 is required to cover the service level agreement charges for the proposed 
general temporary assistance positions and contractors listed above.  

101. A provision of $657,000 is required for support costs to cover rent, alterations 
and communications and supplies for the general temporary assistance positions and 
consultants listed above. Requirements of $408,000 are required for general 
operating expenses, $10,000 for supplies and materials and $206,600 for furniture 
and equipment including the purchase of the necessary new infrastructure. An 
amount of $32,400 has been included under general operating expenses to maintain 
this infrastructure but it will not be required until 2011. 
 
 

 III. Disaster recovery and business continuity planning:  
a unified approach for information and 
communications technology 
 
 

 A. Background 
 
 

102. The General Assembly, in section IV of its resolution 63/262, emphasized the 
need for appropriate information and communications technology security, disaster 
recovery and business continuity plans. It also requested the Secretary-General to 
consolidate systems in central data centres in order to strengthen disaster recovery 
and business continuity and to minimize the size of local primary and secondary 
data centres. It welcomed the development of a unified approach to disaster 
recovery and business continuity activities throughout the Secretariat, and requested 
the Secretary-General to submit a unified disaster recovery and business continuity 
plan, including a permanent solution for Headquarters. 

103. The purpose of the present report is to propose an ICT framework and a set of 
principles for a programme of work that forms the basis upon which the Secretariat 
can proceed further with the General Assembly’s mandate to develop a unified 
approach to disaster recovery and business continuity for United Nations 
Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters, the regional commissions, 
peacekeeping and political missions, the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda 
and the International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. 



 A/64/477
 

31 09-54436 
 

104. The present report realigns earlier proposals contained in the report of the 
Secretary-General entitled “Information and communications technology security, 
disaster recovery and business continuity for the United Nations” (A/62/477), with 
applicable mandates reflected in General Assembly resolutions 63/262 and 63/269. 
The two resolutions provide for additional principles that qualify, change, and/or 
expand the scope of a number of elements of the disaster recovery and business 
continuity strategy contained in the report. Those additional principles include the 
following: 

 (a) Consolidating systems in central data centres to strengthen disaster 
recovery and business continuity and minimize the size of local primary and 
secondary data centres; 

 (b) Prioritizing systems to minimize cost of disaster recovery and business 
continuity; 

 (c) Ensuring the use of enterprise data centres rather than local data centres 
as far as possible; 

 (d) Fully exploring the possibilities for consolidating and using the most 
reliable and cost-effective solution for data storage, business continuity services and 
hosting of enterprise systems; 

 (e) Undertaking the classification of critical and non-critical systems of the 
Secretariat and providing to the General Assembly an inventory of systems 
classified according to their degree of criticality, at the time of its consideration of 
the proposal for a permanent secondary data centre; 

 (f) Re-engineering the applications and data to support the long-term goal of 
managing data recovery and business continuity in system-wide enterprise data 
centres and where, from a long-term perspective, it is more cost-effective than 
hosting them in local data centres; 

 (g) Ensuring that the level of protection proposed has been subject to a 
thorough cost-benefit analysis. 

105. The present report also proposes a high-level strategy and an action plan to 
conclude the work being carried out by the Secretariat with a view to producing a 
unified disaster recovery and business continuity plan for ICT, with related resource 
requirements. 

106. In the light of the recent creation of the Business Continuity Management Unit 
in the Department of Management, the implementation of disaster recovery and 
business continuity mandates will be undertaken jointly by the Unit and the Office 
of Information and Communications Technology. In this connection, the focus of the 
programme of work of the Unit is on business continuity management, which 
addresses the planning needed to ensure that the Organization can continue its 
critical functions under all circumstances, while the focus of the information and 
communications technology disaster recovery programme of work is on disaster 
recovery, which is concerned with planning for the resumption of ICT infrastructure 
and services after a disruption that adversely impacts critical business functions. As 
such, the Secretary-General’s report on business continuity management provides 
the context for the disaster recovery efforts with regard to ICT. 
 
 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 32 
 

 B. Disaster recovery and business continuity goals 
 
 

107. The focus of this proposal is on establishing broad principles to ensure the 
continuation of ICT infrastructure and services critical to the Organization in the 
wake of a natural or human induced disaster. It assumes the need for more detailed 
study to address in a granular fashion the larger process of planning and crisis 
response for resumption of applications, data, hardware, communications, and other 
IT infrastructure after a major incident or crisis. The study proposed will involve a 
complex process requiring extensive consultations with business units on matters 
related to the criticality of ICT systems at each duty station in the Secretariat. 

108. The goal is to develop a comprehensive ICT disatser recovery strategy to 
complement the work being undertaken by the Business Continuity Management 
Unit on business continuity planning for non-IT operations. The scope of this effort 
is directed towards the planning, implementation, and ongoing maintenance of 
suitable ICT backup and recovery with respect to the Organization’s mission-critical 
data, systems and services to be defined by the study undertaken in collaboration 
with the Business Continuity Management Unit. 
 
 

 C. Information and communications technology disaster 
recovery project 
 
 

  Framework 
 

109. Following consultations with the International Telecommunications Union, the 
Secretariat proposes to adopt ISO/International Electrotechnical Commission 24762 
(Information Technology — Security techniques — Guidelines for information and 
communications technology disaster recovery services) as the basic framework for 
the development of a unified disaster recovery and business continuity plan. 

110. The standard provides guidelines for ICT disaster recovery services, which 
includes both those provided in-house and outsourced. It covers facilities and services 
capabilities, and provides fallback and recovery support to an organization’s ICT 
systems. It includes the implementation, testing, and execution aspects of disaster 
recovery. Such fallback arrangements may include arrangements with third parties 
in the form of reciprocal agreements, or commercial subscription services. 

111. The guidelines include the requirements for implementing, operating, 
monitoring, and maintaining ICT disaster recovery services, divided into two areas: 
(a) ICT disaster recovery; and (b) ICT disaster recovery facilities. 

112. The International Standard is based on a multi-tiered framework comprising 
different elements in the information and communications technology disaster 
recovery services provision, as illustrated in figure IV. The “foundation” layer comprises 
the important aspects of information and communications technology disaster recovery 
services, namely policies, performance measurement, processes and people. This layer 
helps to define the supporting infrastructure and services capability. 

113. The “continuous improvement” layer highlights practices that help to improve 
ICT disaster recovery activities in specific areas, and represents an added level of 
provision to the services provided. Thus the guidelines in this international standard 
are drawn from a composite view of these layers, and with a balance between cost-
effectiveness and standard rigor considerations. 



 A/64/477
 

33 09-54436 
 

Figure IV 
Framework for provision of information and communications 
technology disaster recovery services 
 

Organization’s information 
and communications 
technology disaster 
recovery requirements

Information and communications 
technology disaster recovery 

framework

Infrastructure
Services 
capability

Policies

Performance 
measurement

Processes

People

Continuous Improvement

Effective provision of information and 
communications technology disaster 
recovery services in support of 
Organization’s business continuity 
management

 
 
 

114. “Policies” enable the setting of direction on other related areas of ICT disaster 
recovery services, and also enable clear communication to relevant parties on the 
requirements that can be met by an ICT disaster recovery plan. 

115. “Performance measurement” enables the review and improvement of ICT 
disaster recovery services and at the same time provides a means to demonstrate that 
services meet organization requirements. 

116. The “processes” component ensures that a consistent approach will be adopted 
in the other areas of ICT disaster recovery, making possible the continuous 
maintenance of service levels and the ease of training of ICT disaster recovery 
personnel. 

117. The “people” component relates to the pool of skilled and knowledgeable staff  
needed to help operate, uphold and maintain an ICT disaster recovery plan. 

118. As illustrated in figure V, the overall approach that the Secretariat proposes to 
follow for the ICT disaster recovery planning consists of a number of discrete stages 
aimed at achieving a comprehensive and viable disaster recovery plan that fully 
meets the requirements of the Organization’s business units in the event of a disaster 
or failure. 
 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 34 
 

Figure V 
Recommended approach to disaster recovery planning 
 

Conduct of business 
impact analysis review, 
assessment of risks, then 
based on these results –
establishment of 
business recovery 
priorities, timescales and 
requirements

Disaster recovery plan 
testing

Disaster recovery 
awareness

Ongoing disaster 
recovery plan 
maintenance

Impact, priorities, timescales for 
recovery and minimum 

requirements

Options for meeting priorities, 
timescales and minimum 

requirements, and 
recommendations

Plan(s), organisation, 
responsibilities, logistics, detailed 

action tasklists

Test strategy and test plans, 
testing and evidence

Awareness for all staff

Ongoing maintenance activity

Risk
reduction

Security 
controls 
incl. for 

resilience

Disaster recovery plan 
production

Disaster recovery 
strategy formulation

 
 
 

119. The first five stages shown in figure V above are consecutive. When a disaster 
recovery plan has first been produced and tested, the sixth stage follows on over 
time, and is conducted at regular intervals and after any significant changes that 
might affect the validity of the plan, revisiting any of the other stages for update 
purposes as is necessary. In other words, it becomes an ongoing, cyclical process 
that must be integrated into the work programme of the Organization. The seventh 
stage is conducted in parallel with the other stages. 
 

  High-level strategy 
 

120. The high-level strategy being proposed for the disaster recovery component of 
a unified approach to disaster recovery and business continuity takes into account 
all the following critical components of ICT infrastructure required for the 
continued support of mission-critical systems and services — desktop clients, 
mobile devices, networks, and data centre (computing) infrastructure. The first two 
components, desktop clients and mobile devices, will be addressed by rationalizing 
the ICT standards for relevant hardware, software and harmonizing the related 
practices in all locations. The disruptions in the other two components, loss of data 
centre services and/or network connectivity, are to be specifically addressed by the 
ICT disaster recovery plan. 

121. The ICT disaster recovery plan will address only the recovery of the critical 
systems and communications. This scenario assumes that all equipment in the data 
centre is not salvageable and that all critical telecommunications capability has been 
lost. 



 A/64/477
 

35 09-54436 
 

122. Recovery activities will be conducted in a phased approach. The emphasis will 
be to recover critical systems effectively and efficiently. Critical systems will be 
recovered over a period of time following transfer of services to the recovery site, 
based on business recovery requirements to be developed under the proposed 
programme of work. 

123. The plan to be developed will include in its scope the following objectives: 

 (a) Limit the magnitude of any loss by minimizing the duration of a critical 
system’s service interruption; 

 (b) Recover data imperative to the operation of critical systems; 

 (c) Manage the recovery operation in an organized and effective manner; 

 (d) Prepare technology personnel to respond effectively in recovery 
situations. 

124. With a view towards cost-efficiency, the plan will be guided by a principle of 
re-use, to the extent possible, of existing ICT infrastructure and facilities. It shall 
also focus on the consolidation of mission-critical systems in central or enterprise 
data centres as a means of strengthening disaster recovery and business continuity 
capabilities Organization-wide.  

125. The use of a decentralized incident management model is assumed, whereby 
teams are to be established at each of the organization’s sites and tasked with 
creating their own unique incident response procedures. Such procedures are to be 
site-specific to each duty station and coordinated centrally by the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology. These site-specific management 
teams are intended to ensure appropriate, timely, flexible emergency procedures for 
each site. 

126. For the purposes of site recovery, the Secretary-General proposes to establish 
two enterprise data centres in geographically diverse locations; namely, at Brindisi 
and a second site that is to be determined based on the outcome of the “analysis 
phase” of the study. The two facilities are intended to host mission-critical 
enterprise systems and services for the Secretariat, while providing for a range of 
backup and fail-over capabilities between them in support of disaster recovery and 
business continuity operations.  

127. Towards this end, funding approved under resolution 63/262 is being used in 
the current biennium to initiate the build-out of enterprise data centre capacity at 
UNLB. In line with the strategy presented in the report of the Secretary-General 
(A/62/477), UNLB is to serve as the primary electronic information repository for 
enterprise systems such as the ERP, ECM and CRM, as well as other mission-
critical systems and related data for all duty stations within the Secretariat. This 
approach is an integral part of the initial phase that will be incrementally expanded 
to incorporate an all-encompassing disaster recovery and business continuity plan. 

128. It should be noted that systems that do not require enterprise-wide access, or 
that have data protection requirements of zero-data loss, such as closed circuit 
television archiving for physical security systems, will need to continue to be 
supported in local data centres at each duty station. Through increased centralization 
of systems, however, the size of secondary data centres in duty stations should be 
reduced.  



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 36 
 

129. The classification and prioritization of data and mission-critical systems are to 
be addressed during the data-collection phase of the proposed programme of work 
outlined below. For example, the Department for General Assembly and Conference 
Management has several systems which do not have disaster recovery arrangements 
but are likely to be classified as critical. The data-collection phase, undertaken in 
collaboration with the Business Continuity Management Unit, will include analysis 
for purposes of classification in terms of criticality, and prioritization for purposes 
of recovery sequencing.  
 

  Proposed programme of work 
 

130. The proposed programme of work for 2010-2011 is to continue ongoing 
activities on a unified approach to ICT disaster recovery and is based on applicable 
mandates contained in resolutions 63/262 and 63/269. It is proposed to be carried 
out in the following three phases: 

 (a) Phase I — Data collection: 

  (i) Project management (plan, scope and objectives); 

  (ii) Risk assessment; 

  (iii) Business impact/gap analysis; 

  (iv) Business recovery requirements determination; 

 (b) Phase II — Plan development: 

  (i) Disaster recovery and business continuity strategy reformulation; 

  (ii) Disaster recovery and business continuity plan modification, 
development, and/or enhancements; 

 (c) Phase III — Testing, monitoring and maintenance: 

  (i) Disaster recovery and business continuity plan testing; 

  (ii) Maintenance of the plan through updates and reviews; 

  (iii) Periodic inspection of disaster recovery and business continuity 
plans. 

131. The data-collection phase of the project (phase I) is required to undertake 
further study and analyses to address the General Assembly mandates related to the 
classification of critical and non-critical systems, the prioritization of systems, and 
the consolidation of systems in enterprise data centres. It will consider the estimated 
likelihood of threat occurrence with the cost of specific process and system failures 
to identify especially important areas on which to focus disaster recovery and 
business continuity investments. Based on a Secretariat-wide classification of 
systems in terms of criticality, as requested in resolution 63/269, this effort will 
focus time and resources on the immediate restoration of only business functions, 
and their supporting systems, that are absolutely necessary for the Organization to 
continue to conduct business.  

132. Activities associated with the business impact analysis, and the business 
recovery requirement determination in this phase of the work programme, are to be 
carried out by the Business Continuity Management Unit, and the results of those 



 A/64/477
 

37 09-54436 
 

studies will determine the extent to which local primary and local secondary data 
centres are required at each duty station, as well as their size and scope. 

133. The scope of phase II will draw upon the experience of other United Nations 
entities with regard to disaster recovery and business continuity strategy 
formulation, solutions design, and plan development. It will address the 
development of data protection strategies for disaster recovery, and the development 
of site recovery strategies for business continuity. Also to be included are 
infrastructure design solutions for data protection and site recovery of mission-
critical systems and services enterprise-wide, taking into account the most reliable 
and cost-effective solutions for data storage, business continuity services, and 
hosting of enterprise systems. 

134. This phase of the work programme will serve to validate the high-level 
strategy presented here in terms of its alignment with applicable General Assembly 
mandates contained in resolutions 63/262 and 63/269. It will also result in the 
development of a comprehensive, unified disaster recovery and business continuity 
plan for ICT Secretariat-wide. Lastly, detailed analysis arising from studies 
undertaken in both phases I and II will form the basis for the proposal to be 
submitted at the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly for a permanent 
secondary data centre for United Nations Headquarters. 

135. As technology, personnel, and facilities undergo constant change at most duty 
stations, it is imperative that the resulting disaster recovery and business continuity 
plan is regularly updated to capture these changes. At the bare minimum, significant 
business and IT infrastructure changes should be automatic triggers for modification 
of the plan. These changes include: (a) new mission-critical systems; (b) new server 
or storage platforms; and (c) changes in organizational structure affecting key 
business units. 

136. The need therefore exists for integration of disaster recovery and business 
continuity processes into project life cycle and change management processes. The 
integration of these processes represents critical activities that will need to be added 
to the broader work programme of the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology during the monitoring and maintenance (phase III) of this programme of 
work. Resource requirements for these activities and for periodic testing of plans in 
coordination with the Business Continuity Management Unit and the Department of 
Safety and Security will be formulated and submitted to the General Assembly at the 
sixty-fifth session. 
 
 

 D. Implementation plan 
 
 

137. The completion of phase I (Data collection) is scheduled for the second quarter 
of 2010, with phase II (Plan development) projected for completion by September 
2011. Full implementation of a unified disaster recovery and business continuity 
plan is scheduled in late 2011, at which time phase III (Testing, monitoring and 
maintenance) is expected to commence. Resource requirements for phase III will be 
presented to the General Assembly at the sixty-fifth session. 
 
 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 38 
 

 E. Project funding requirements 
 
 

138. Phases I and II activities will require funding in the biennium 2010-2011 for 
the development of duty station-specific data protection and site recovery strategies, 
and disaster recovery plans tailored to the threat profiles of each site. It will also 
require funding for the implementation of disaster recovery and business continuity 
infrastructure solutions arising from phase II plans. As indicated above, resource 
requirements for phase III activities will be presented at the sixty-fifth session of the 
General Assembly, following the conclusion of work on the structural review. 

139. Resources are therefore sought in the amount of $3,392,300 under the 
proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011 to cover projected 
expenditures for the following phase I and phase II activities associated with a 
unified approach to disaster recovery and business continuity: 

 (a) Data collection; 

 (b) ICT business impact analysis; 

 (c) Business recovery requirements determination; 

 (d) Disaster recovery and business continuity plan development; 

 (e) Data centre infrastructure upgrades for site recovery in UNLB at 
Brindisi; 

 (f) Data centre infrastructure upgrades for data protection in UNLB at 
Brindisi. 
 

  Table 4 
  Resource requirements for disaster recovery and business continuity 

(at 2008-2009 rates) 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 

Object of expenditure Current estimate  

Other staff costs 384.0 

Travel 108.6 

Contractual services  2 830.9 

General operating expenses  58.2 

Supplies and materials 1.0 

Furniture and equipment  9.6 

 Total 3 392.3 
 
 

140. Funding requested in the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-
2011 consists of two major components. The first component relates to funding for 
contractual services to undertake a study for the classification and prioritization of 
ICT systems, as well as the reformulation of a unified disaster recovery and business 
continuity plan. This study is to be carried out in two phases in collaboration with 
the Business Continuity Management Unit, at an estimated cost of $1,808,600. A 
provision of $1,308,600 will support the contractual services and travel to continue 
studies being initiated at the 12 sites that comprise United Nations Headquarters, 



 A/64/477
 

39 09-54436 
 

offices away from Headquarters, UNLB at Brindisi, the International Tribunal for 
the former Yugoslavia and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda. A further 
$500,000 in contractual services is required to support the strategy reformulation 
and disaster recovery solution design.  

141. The second component of $1,127,300 relates to the ongoing operation of the 
enterprise data centre in UNLB for a service-level agreement to cover the costs of 
maintenance of equipment and services.  

142. In addition, $384,000 is sought for general temporary assistance at the P-5 
level for 24 months as a Disaster Recovery Coordinator.  

143. An amount totalling $72,400 is required for the non-post costs such as rent, 
alterations, furniture and information and communications charges associated with 
the general temporary assistance position detailed above; included in the standard 
costs are the expenses of $3,600 for data processing services, $58,200 for general 
operating expenses, $1,000 for supplies and materials and $9,600 for furniture and 
equipment.  
 
 

 IV. Conclusions and summary of resources  
 
 

  Conclusions  
 
 

144. The present report provides an update on the implementation of the ECM and 
CMR systems and the disaster recovery business continuity initiatives and details 
the planned project activities for 2010-2011 and their related resource requirements.  

145. The report describes how Enterprise Content Management is the foundation 
for effective knowledge management. Implementing knowledge management 
requires a global approach, which should address the information needs of United 
Nations stakeholders, both internal and external. This Organization-wide effort 
allows for an identification of information gaps that will have to be filled to satisfy 
stakeholders’ needs. Emphasis will then be given to leveraging successes that 
already have shown visible results, and learning from past mistakes. An incremental 
approach will be taken to ensure that a critical mass of personnel use existing 
knowledge, and are involved in collaborative approaches so that, ultimately, the 
Organization will reap the benefits of more effective decision-making, quicker 
access to key documents and more targeted services to Member States. 

146. The second project, customer relationship management, will improve service 
delivery across the Secretariat by improving quality and cost-effectiveness of the 
services provided. With the streamlined service processes and consolidated 
technology solutions, service providers can utilize their resources more efficiently 
while users can expect better service with faster turnaround. A unified customer 
experience with increased productivity gains will be evident to all customers 
including internal customers, delegates, external organizations and the public.  

147. For disaster recovery and business continuity, the present report sets out the 
framework and a set of principles for a programme of work that forms the basis 
upon which the Secretariat can develop a unified approach to disaster recovery and 
business continuity for United Nations Headquarters, offices away from 
Headquarters, the regional commissions, peacekeeping and political missions, the 



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 40 
 

International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, and the International Tribunal for the 
former Yugoslavia.  

148. The following tables summarize the resource requirements under the proposed 
programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011 by section and object of expenditure 
and project arising from the proposals contained in sections II and III of the present 
report. 
 

  Table 5 
Summary of resources by project 
 

Name of project  Proposed resources 

Enterprise content management 14 548 300 

Customer relationship management 4 433 000 

Disaster recovery and business continuity 3 392 300 

 Subtotal (net) 22 373 600 

Section 36: Staff assessmenta 735 300 

 Total (gross) 23 108 900 
 

 a Offset by an equivalent amount under Income section 1, Income from staff assessment. 
 
 

  Table 6 
Summary of objects of expenditure: resource requirements by object of 
expenditure for the biennium 2010-2011a 
 

2010-2011 

Growth 

Object of expenditure 

2008-2009 
revised 

appropriation

Proposed 
programme 

budget 
A/64/6b

Present 
report

Total before 
recosting Recosting 

2010-2011 
estimate 

Posts 92 929.5 346.5 — 93 276.0 4 742.5 98 018.5 

Other staff costs 3 580.9 (182.4) 4 889.6 8 288.1 403.2 13 580.9 

Consultants and experts 305.1 0.0 — 305.1 14.8 319.9 

Travel of staff 699.3 0.0 448.1 1 147.4 53.1 1 648.6 

Contractual services 25 336.7 1 953.5 13 316.5 40 606.7 1 972.7 55 895.9 

General operating 
expenses 116 643.4 (1 209.5) 1 836.9 117 270.8 5 696.6 124 804.3 

Hospitality 10.3 (4.1) — 6.2 0.4 6.6 

Supplies and materials 3 306.0 (760.0) 33.0 2 579.0 124.8 2 736.8 

Furniture and 
equipment 5 606.4 (2 949.0) 1 849.5 4 506.9 219.3 6 575.7 

 Subtotal (net) 248 417.6 (2 805.0) 22 373.6 267 986.2 13 227.4 281 213.6 

   



 A/64/477
 

41 09-54436 
 

2010-2011 

Growth 

Object of expenditure 

2008-2009 
revised 

appropriation

Proposed 
programme 

budget 
A/64/6b

Present 
report

Total before 
recosting Recosting 

2010-2011 
estimate 

Staff assessmentc 510 939.6 1 885.4 735.3 513 560.3 14 779.4 529 075.0 

 Total (gross) 759 357.2 (919.6) 23 108.9 781 546.5 28 006.8 809 553.3 
 

 a Requirements relate to the 3 sections of the proposed programme budget detailed in table 7 
below. 

 b Growth in the proposed programme budget (A/64/6) does not relate to ECM, CRM or 
disaster recovery and business continuity activities.  

 c Offset by an equivalent amount under Income section 1, Income from staff assessment. 
 
 

Table 7 
Summary by section: resource requirements by budget section for the biennium 2010-2011 

 

2010-2011 

Growth 

Budget section 

2008-2009 
revised 

appropriation

Proposed 
programme 

budget A/64/6a Present report
Total before 

recosting Recosting
2010-2011

estimate

28D. Office of Central Support Services 175 088.5 (1 594.6) 1 416.8 174 910.7 8 569.4 183 480.1

29.  Office of Information and 
Communications Technology 73 329.1 (1 210.4) 20 956.8 93 075.5 4 658.0 97 733.5

 Subtotal (net) 248 417.6 (2 805.0) 22 373.6 267 986.2 13 227.4 281 213.6

36.  Staff assessmentb 510 939.6 1 885.4 735.3 513 560.3 14 779.4 528 339.7

 Total (gross) 759 357.2 (919.6) 23 108.9 781 546.5 28 006.8 809 553.3
 

 a Growth in the proposed programme budget (A/64/6) does not relate to ECM, CRM or disaster recovery and business 
continuity activities. 

 b Offset by an equivalent amount under Income section 1, Income from staff assessment. 
 
 
 

 V. Actions to be taken by the General Assembly 
 
 

149. The General Assembly is requested to: 

 (a) Endorse the proposals and approach described in the present report 
for the implementation of enterprise content management, customer 
relationship management and business continuity and disaster recovery 
planning; 

 (b) Approve the funding required to continue the Enterprise Content 
Management project for the biennium 2010-2011 estimated at $14,548,300;  

 (c) Approve the funding required to continue the Customer Relationship 
Management project for the biennium 2010-2011 estimated at $4,433,000;  



A/64/477  
 

09-54436 42 
 

 (d) Approve the funding required to undertake development of a unified 
disaster recovery plan and to maintain the Brindisi enterprise data centre for 
the biennium 2010-2011 estimated at $3,392,300; 

 (e) Approve a total amount of $23,108,900 gross ($22,373,600 net) for the 
biennium 2010-2011 under section 28D, Office of Central Support Services 
($1,416,800) and section 29, Office of Information and Communications 
Technology ($20,956,800); and section 36, Staff assessment ($735,300), to be 
offset by a corresponding amount under Income section 1, Income from staff 
assessment, of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011; 

 (f) Note that comprehensive plans on disaster recovery and business 
continuity for Secretariat entities including requirements for the maintenance 
and monitoring phase of the information and communications technology 
disaster recovery plan will be submitted for consideration in the context of the 
proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013. 

 

 


