
 United Nations  A/64/7/Add.9

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
16 November 2009 
 
Original: English 

 

09-60895 (E)    191109  
*0960895*   

Sixty-fourth session 
Agenda items 132 and 146 

 

Proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011 
 

Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of  
the United Nations peacekeeping operations 

 
 
 

  Information and communications technology 
 
 

  Tenth report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions on the proposed programme budget for the 
biennium 2010-2011 
 
 

 I. Introduction  
 
 

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has 
considered the following reports relating to information and communications 
technology:  

 (a) Revised estimates relating to the proposed programme budget for the 
biennium 2010-2011 under sections 28D, 29 and 36 related to the enterprise content 
management and customer relationship management systems and proposals for a 
unified disaster recovery and business continuity plan (A/64/477); 

 (b) First progress report on the enterprise resource planning project and 
revised estimates under section 28A of the proposed programme budget for 2010-
2011 and under the support account for peacekeeping operations (A/64/380). 

During its consideration of the reports, the Advisory Committee met with the Under-
Secretary-General for Management and the Chief Information Technology Officer, 
as well as with other representatives of the Secretary-General, who provided 
additional information and clarification.  

2. The reports are submitted pursuant to General Assembly resolution 63/262, by 
which the Assembly took action on a series of proposals for comprehensive reform 
of information and communications technology at the United Nations on the basis of 
the Secretary-General’s proposals for an Organization-wide information and 
communications technology strategy, the establishment of an Office of Information 
and Communications Technology, the implementation of a new generation of 
enterprise systems and elements for strengthening information and communications 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 2 
 

technology disaster recovery and business continuity, as well as the related reports 
of the Advisory Committee (see A/62/477, A/62/510/Rev.1, A/62/793 and Corr.1 and 
Add.1, A/62/7/Add.31 and A/63/487 and Corr.1 and 2).  

3. The overall strategy adopted by the General Assembly for meeting the 
Secretariat’s information and communications technology needs over the next three 
to five years is to be implemented through three strategic Organization-wide 
programmes critical to the operation of the Organization, namely: (a) resource 
management for the needs of administrative groups in managing financial, human, 
physical and other resources; (b) knowledge management for addressing the needs 
of substantive and other departments in managing their unstructured information; 
and (c) infrastructure management for information and communications technology 
specialists in providing data centres, communications and help desks. The 
information and communications technology strategy is based on strong central 
leadership for the establishment and implementation of Organization-wide 
information and communications technology standards and activities and a 
decentralized approach to operations. In this context, the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology sets the overall strategic direction for the 
Organization, coordinates Secretariat-wide activities in the area of information and 
communications technology and manages the three strategic programmes. The 
Advisory Committee notes that enterprise content management and customer 
relationship management systems are implemented under the knowledge 
management and resource management programmes, respectively. Enterprise 
resource planning is the core system for delivering the resource management 
programme. The Committee notes the Secretary-General’s intention to create 
information and communications technology architecture that can provide a 
coherent environment for the development and implementation of the Organization’s 
information technology systems and integration of the three enterprise systems. 
Upon enquiry, the Committee was provided with an update on the status of 
implementation of the information and communications technology management 
framework, which is summarized in annex I to the present report. 
 
 

 II. Report on the enterprise content management and customer 
relationship management systems and proposals for a 
unified disaster recovery and business continuity plan 
 
 

 A. Enterprise systems  
 
 

4. In the paragraphs below the Advisory Committee comments on issues related 
to both the enterprise content management and the customer relationship 
management systems. The Committee’s observations on the specific aspects of each 
enterprise system are contained in the relevant sections.  

5. In its resolution 63/262 (sect. II, para. 26 (e)), the General Assembly requested 
the Secretary-General to provide an update on the implementation of the enterprise 
content management and customer relationship management systems. In that 
resolution, the General Assembly also noted that the implementation of those 
systems was already in progress and that the Secretary-General had not made a full 
proposal at the time of their inception. The Advisory Committee had commented on 
this situation in its report A/62/7/Add.31 (paras. 15-29), noting that it would have 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

3 09-60895 
 

been appropriate for the Secretary-General to make a full proposal before launching 
the projects and acquiring the software for the enterprise content management and 
customer relationship management systems. However, not wishing to impede 
progress in the implementation of the projects, the Committee had recommended 
approval of the resources requested by the Secretary-General, while emphasizing the 
need for information to be provided to the General Assembly on the benefits 
expected and the full costs of the implementation, as well as the measures necessary 
to complete and maintain the systems (para. 29; see also A/63/487 and Corr.1 and 2, 
paras. 76 and 77). The Committee notes that in his report (A/64/477), the Secretary-
General provides most of the information requested, including the overall context, 
goals, rationale and benefits expected from the implementation of the enterprise 
content management and customer relationship management systems throughout the 
United Nations Secretariat, as well as plans for the phased implementation of those 
systems and funding requirements for the biennium 2010-2011.  

6. The proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011 did not include a 
provision for the requirements related to the proposals contained in the Secretary-
General’s report. In this connection, the Advisory Committee recalls General 
Assembly resolution 62/236 (para. 9), in which the Secretary-General was requested 
to ensure the fullest possible picture of the Organization’s requirements in future 
proposed programme budgets. The Committee has also emphasized the need to 
include in the proposed programme budgets estimates for requirements that are 
foreseeable at the time of budget preparation. Given the adoption of General 
Assembly resolution 63/262 in December 2008, the Committee is of the view 
that the Secretary-General should have provided preliminary estimates on the 
requirements for the implementation of the enterprise content management and 
customer relationship management systems in the proposed programme budget 
for 2010-2011. The Committee expects that future proposed programme 
budgets will include requirements for all ongoing and envisaged activities, 
thereby enabling Member States to make informed decisions. 

7. In its resolution 63/262 (sect. II, para. 26 (e)), the General Assembly requested 
the Secretary-General to provide an update on the cost-sharing arrangements for the 
continued implementation of the enterprise content management and the customer 
relationship management systems. The Advisory Committee requested additional 
information on the rationale and the cost-sharing arrangements proposed for 
enterprise content management and customer relationship management, and 
enquired whether the cost-sharing formula approved for the enterprise resource 
planning (ERP) project could be applied to the funding for all enterprise systems. It 
was informed that the Secretary-General’s proposal was to fund the initial 
implementation of the system from the regular budget and to charge projects clearly 
attributable to specific offices/departments according to their usage of the system. 
The Committee was also informed that the cost-sharing ratio applied to ERP is not 
being proposed for enterprise content management and customer relationship 
management owing to the uneven distribution of the benefits of those projects in the 
initial stages of implementation. The implementation of the enterprise content 
management and customer relationship management systems spans a multi-year 
period and involves several discrete sub-projects benefiting specific organizational 
entities, while ERP is a corporate system. However, the Secretary-General does not 
rule out the harmonization of the cost-sharing ratios for all enterprise systems once 
the foundational elements of enterprise content management and customer 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 4 
 

relationship management have been implemented and if an equitable chargeback 
model can be established for apportioning costs on the basis of the number of users. 
The Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be requested to 
explore such mechanisms and to report on this matter in the context of the 
proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013. 
 
 

 B. Enterprise content management  
 
 

8. In section III of its resolution 63/262, the General Assembly recognized the 
benefits of the implementation of the enterprise content management system and 
requested the Secretary-General to continue to implement those applications 
throughout the Organization. The General Assembly also stressed that enterprise 
systems should be developed and implemented under the authority of the Chief 
Information Technology Officer in order to ensure a coordinated approach to the 
development of such systems (see also A/62/7/Add.31, para. 27).  

9. The Secretary-General provides information on the benefits expected from the 
implementation of enterprise content management in terms of increased 
effectiveness and increased efficiency (A/64/477, paras. 23-26). The Advisory 
Committee requested further information on the quantitative and tangible gains 
expected from the implementation of enterprise content management, which is 
provided in annex II to the present report. The Secretary-General estimates that an 
annual economy of some 250 person-years in productivity gains could be expected, 
on the basis of an assumption that an average of 5 per cent of staff time at all levels 
is spent on searching for information, and that enterprise content management is 
deployed to 10,000 Secretariat staff. The Committee notes that these estimates 
are based on a series of assumptions rather than on a detailed analysis. It is of 
the view that the Secretary-General should be requested to elaborate on the 
concrete efficiency gains expected from the implementation of enterprise 
content management in the context of the proposed programme budget for the 
biennium 2012-2013. The Committee has commented more extensively on the issue 
in section III below, on enterprise resource planning. 

10. In paragraphs 6 to 22 of his report, the Secretary-General describes the 
existing situation and sets out the goals, rationale and scope of enterprise content 
management. He indicates that the offices and departments of the United Nations 
generate vast quantities of unstructured information in the form of documents, 
records, website content, e-mail messages, images and audiovisual materials. A 
multitude of disparate approaches and technologies are utilized to produce, manage 
and distribute these materials, entailing considerable duplication and inefficiencies, 
as well as significant levels of expenditure. Furthermore, because of this 
fragmentation, staff and other stakeholders experience enormous difficulty in 
finding the information they need, resulting in loss of productivity and 
ineffectiveness. The Secretary-General states that this situation is unsustainable, in 
terms of both the Organization’s ability to support the various systems utilized and 
the inefficiencies resulting from the lack of appropriate policies and tools for 
information management.  

11. The Secretary-General indicates that enterprise content management will 
improve the Organization’s ability to capture, analyse and share information, 
enhance access and usability of information resources and provide complete, 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

5 09-60895 
 

accurate and timely information to support decision-making. Typical enterprise 
content management systems comprise a series of modules, including document 
management, records management, digital assets management, Web content 
management and collaboration tools, as well as providing functions for capturing, 
storing, reusing, sharing, publishing, archiving and managing information. The 
Advisory Committee was informed that the enterprise content management system 
supports the implementation of United Nations rules and procedures related to 
record-keeping with respect to the creation, management and disposition of records, 
the classification of essential and non-essential information and security levels, 
thereby facilitating the control and tracking of records.  

12. The Advisory Committee notes the key factors and prerequisites for the 
realization of the benefits of knowledge management, as well as the unique aspects 
and challenges related to the implementation of enterprise content management as 
outlined in paragraphs 34 to 36 of the Secretary-General’s report. In addition to the 
establishment of a proper framework for the programme, the development of an 
appropriate communications and training strategy and the identification of suitable 
offices/departments and sponsors for the start-up of the programme, it will be 
necessary to ensure that specialized staff skills are available. These include 
specialized skills for managing information, content and change. Furthermore, if the 
expected benefits of enterprise content management are to be effectively realized, 
the sustained involvement and commitment of the stakeholders it is intended to 
service will be necessary. The Committee urges the Secretary-General to ensure 
that the key success factors outlined in the report are met and that the related 
activities are completed satisfactorily.  

13. It is indicated in paragraph 18 of the Secretary-General’s report that the 
Knowledge Management Service will plan and coordinate the approach for the 
deployment of enterprise content management, in cooperation with the departments 
and offices of the Secretariat, as well as in the field. Upon enquiry, the Advisory 
Committee was informed that the Knowledge Management Service had a staffing 
component of 15 established posts, of which 9 posts were required for supporting 
enterprise content management implementation and the remaining 6 posts for 
supporting the other activities of the knowledge management programme, such as 
the Official Documents System (ODS), the Intranet and the various Lotus Notes 
QuickPlace environments. The functions of the 9 posts involved in supporting 
enterprise content management are set out below: 

 (a) One D-1 Director with overall responsibility for the activities of the 
Service. It is estimated that two thirds of the activities of the post are related to 
enterprise content management;  

 (b) Two P-5 Chiefs of Section, responsible for ensuring overall coordination 
of the enterprise content management project, including collaboration activities; 

 (c) Two P-4 Project Managers, dedicated to the management track and the 
collaboration track; 

 (d) One P-3 Business Analyst, involved in the correspondence management 
initiative; 

 (e) One P-3 Change/Information Management Officer, involved in 
taxonomy, metadata and change management activities, including training; 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 6 
 

 (f) One P-3 Information Technology Officer providing support for 
infrastructure management; 

 (g) One P-2 Assistant Information Technology Officer, involved in 
collaboration and change management activities. 
 

  Implementation activities  
 

14. The Advisory Committee notes that the system is to be implemented in 
incremental phases, including an initial foundational phase for establishing the core 
technical infrastructure, governance and the overall management procedures and 
guidance to enable a coordinated approach to enterprise content management. Many 
of the key functionalities of enterprise content management, such as document 
management and website management, are to be implemented in the second phase, 
with the deployment of specific enterprise content management modules at a duty 
station or office that has already developed a specific expertise in a given area. The 
Committee also notes that the implementation is to be undertaken as a partnership 
between the Office of Information and Communications Technology and the 
concerned department/office on the basis of jointly determined priority needs, 
organizational readiness and the availability of resources. In addition, partnerships 
among departments and offices that share common needs are to be set up so as to 
facilitate the extension of the deployment of tested enterprise content management 
modules. These first two phases are expected to be completed during the biennium 
2010-2011. Future phases will focus on expanding the deployment of enterprise 
content management core modules for collaboration and the management of 
documents, records and Web content, as well as the management of digital and 
multimedia assets.  

15. As indicated in paragraph 5 above, the implementation of enterprise content 
management is already under way. In paragraph 47 of his report, the Secretary-
General indicates that full deployment of enterprise content management across the 
Organization will take up to five years. Upon enquiring as to the timeline of the 
implementation and the start of the five-year period, the Advisory Committee was 
informed that implementation activities had commenced in 2008 and would 
continue until 2013. With regard to the update on the activities related to the 
foundational phase (paras. 37 and 38), the Committee was informed that a 
framework for the implementation of enterprise content management had been 
established comprising the following elements:  

 (a) An enterprise content management governance framework. The 
implementation of enterprise content management is guided by the Working Group 
on Knowledge Management, which develops the strategic direction for the 
Secretariat’s knowledge management programme, reviews proposed enterprise 
content management initiatives and monitors implementation status. The 
membership of the Working Group includes departments and offices at Headquarters 
and at offices away from Headquarters (the Department of Economic and Social 
Affairs, the Department of Field Support, the Department for General Assembly and 
Conference Management, the Department of Management, the Office of Central 
Support Services of the Department of Management, the Department of Political 
Affairs, the Department of Public Information, the Department of Peacekeeping 
Operations, the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology; the Economic Commission for 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

7 09-60895 
 

Europe, the United Nations Office at Geneva, the United Nations Office at 
Vienna/United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and the secretariat of the Chief 
Executives Board for Coordination) (see also annex I); 

 (b) A road map for the implementation of enterprise content management. 
The enterprise content management road map is shown in table 1 of the Secretary-
General’s report (A/64/477). It comprises 18 enterprise content management high-
priority initiatives which were identified on the basis of interviews conducted with 
10 United Nations departments/offices on their priority enterprise content 
management needs; 

 (c) Global deployment architecture for the hosting and deployment of 
enterprise content management systems worldwide, developed in coordination with 
the infrastructure management programme; 

 (d) Enterprise content management policies and standards. A compendium 
of standards, policies, guidelines and best practices related to content description 
and organization, including metadata and taxonomy, the classification of documents, 
information security, content types, website guidelines, formats, life cycles and 
workflow, has been compiled. The compendium is to be reviewed by subject matter 
experts and by the Working Group on Knowledge Management. 

16. The implementation activities and expected results for the biennium 2010-
2011 have been organized on the basis of the following five tracks, as summarized 
in table 1 of the Secretary-General’s report: 

 (a) Two tracks related to project management and technical activities 
(foundational phase), as set out below: 

 (i) The management track ensures the overall coordination of the project. It 
involves implementing policies, procedures and standards, developing and 
implementing the change management programme and establishing 
partnerships to ensure consistent approaches and to avoid duplication of 
efforts; 

 (ii) The infrastructure management track ensures that the essential technical 
infrastructure is in place, including hardware and software, to support the 
availability and deployment of the various enterprise content management 
capabilities to all duty stations and peacekeeping missions; 

 (b) Three tracks for the delivery of a minimal set of information 
management capabilities needed by many operational units in the Secretariat, as set 
out below: 

 (i) The collaboration track includes various initiatives for introducing 
additional collaboration technologies, developing communities of practice and 
including a correspondence management tool in the Executive Office of the 
Secretary-General and other units, as well as initiatives for the peacekeeping 
guidance content repository and the automation of the peacekeeping report 
process; 

 (ii) The content management track includes initiatives such as the 
replacement of ODS and a records management programme; 

 (iii) The Web content management track includes initiatives for migrating the 
websites of the five regional commissions using a common template and 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 8 
 

approach, and initiating work on the migration of the United Nations website 
to the enterprise content management platform. 

17. The timeline for the planned project activities for the period 2010-2011 is 
provided in figure II of the report. The Advisory Committee emphasizes the need 
for effective monitoring of the timeline and deliverables of the enterprise 
content management programme so as to ensure that the system is implemented 
within the time frame envisaged. The Committee also requests that information 
on the implementation plan, progress achieved and outstanding activities be 
provided in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 
2012-2013. 
 

  Funding requirements  
 

18. According to the Secretary-General, enterprise content management will 
support the entire Secretariat, including Headquarters, offices away from 
Headquarters, regional commissions and political and peacekeeping missions. He 
indicates that the full deployment of enterprise content management across the 
Organization represents a significant undertaking and that it will require up to five 
years of implementation, coordination, change management and training. Activities 
related to peacekeeping operations were provided for in the 2009/10 budget for the 
support account for peacekeeping operations (see para. 20 below).  

19. As indicated in paragraph 49 of the Secretary-General’s report, the funding 
requirements proposed are for the first two years of the enterprise content 
management implementation plan for United Nations Headquarters, offices away 
from Headquarters and regional commissions, representing the funding required to 
implement the core technical infrastructure, many of the key application capabilities 
and the overall management procedures and guidance to enable a coordinated 
approach to enterprise content management. The Secretary-General provides little 
information on the overall costs over the five-year span of the implementation of 
enterprise content management, the expenditures already incurred or the estimated 
costs for the maintenance of the system once it is fully deployed. While the 
Advisory Committee understands that it may not be feasible to provide 
accurate estimates of future costs, it is of the view that data on the resources 
already engaged across all funding sources should have been provided, along 
with some information on the composition of the costs and the number of 
estimated users during the various phases of the implementation, distinguishing 
between initial costs for the acquisition of the software and infrastructure, 
estimated costs related to customization and training during the 
implementation and deployment of the system, recurring costs for software 
maintenance and licences and other requirements once the system is fully 
implemented.  

20. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was provided with a summary of the 
resources provided for enterprise content management activities to date, with a 
breakdown by funding source, which is shown in annex III. The Committee notes 
that a total amount of $8,781,600 was approved by the General Assembly, 
comprising $2,000,000 under the regular budget, to be met from within the existing 
appropriation for the biennium 2008-2009 (resolution 63/262), and $6,781,600 
under the support account for peacekeeping operations for 2009/10, comprising 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

9 09-60895 
 

$6,645,200 under information technology and $136,400 under general temporary 
assistance to provide for one P-3 position (resolution 63/287). 

21. The Advisory Committee was further informed, upon enquiry, that a new suite 
of enterprise content management products, including 10,000 user licences, had 
been acquired in 2007 at a cost of $3,141,919, funded from within the regular 
budget resources approved under the Information Technology Services Division 
(section 28D) for the biennium 2006-2007. Annual maintenance charges for 
upgrades and support of the enterprise content management software amount to 
20 per cent of the acquisition cost. The initial 10,000 user licences were acquired at 
a cost of $190 per user licence, which will be reduced as the total number of 
licences acquired increases ($175 up to 25,000 and $160 beyond 25,000 user 
licences). The Secretary-General has not acquired additional user licences in 2008-
2009 and does not propose an increase in the number of licences for 2010-2011. The 
Committee was further informed that it is expected that all users of personal 
computers, potentially the Organization’s 43,000 staff members, would ultimately 
use the enterprise content management system to create, search, find, preserve and 
dispose of relevant content. 
 

  Resource requirements for the biennium 2010-2011 
 

22. As indicated in paragraph 5 of the Secretary-General’s report, pending the 
conclusion of the structural review of information technology in the Secretariat and 
the consideration of possibilities for consolidating information and communications 
technology units and changes in the structure and staffing levels of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology, the Secretary-General is proposing to 
provide the human resources required for the biennium 2010-2011 through general 
temporary assistance and contractual services. Any conversion of general temporary 
assistance positions and contractual resources to posts would be proposed for 
consideration by the General Assembly following the outcome of the structural 
review.  

23. The overall estimated cost of the enterprise content management 
implementation plan for United Nations Headquarters, offices away from 
Headquarters and regional commissions under the proposed programme budget for 
the biennium 2010-2011 amounts to $14,548,300, broken down as follows: 

 (a) $3,218,800 under other staff costs to provide for 11 additional general 
temporary assistance positions for 24 months in the Knowledge Management 
Service, as follows:  

 (i) One P-4 Change Management Coordinator, responsible for the overall 
coordination of enterprise content management initiatives related to the 
management track; 

 (ii) One P-4 Knowledge and Content Management Coordinator, responsible 
for overall coordination of enterprise content management initiatives related to 
collaboration; 

 (iii) One P-4 Information and Content Management Coordinator, responsible 
for overall coordination of enterprise content management initiatives related to 
information and content management; 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 10 
 

 (iv) One P-4 Web Content Management Coordinator, responsible for overall 
coordination of enterprise content management initiatives related to Web 
content management; 

 (v) One P-4 Information Systems Officer, responsible for overall 
coordination of the enterprise content management infrastructure; 

 (vi) One P-3 Change Management Officer, responsible for the 
implementation of a change management programme; 

 (vii) One P-3 Knowledge and Content Management Officer, responsible for 
the implementation of a collaboration programme;  

 (viii) One P-3 Content Management Officer, responsible for the 
implementation of content management initiatives; 

 (ix) One P-3 Information Management Officer, responsible for the 
implementation of an information management programme; 

 (x) One P-3 Web Content Management Officer, responsible for the 
implementation of Web content management initiatives for the United Nations 
Secretariat; 

 (xi) One P-3 Information Systems Officer, responsible for technical support 
for website development. 

 (b) $269,500 for travel to cover requirements for trips to ensure overall 
management and coordination of enterprise content management deployment to all 
duty stations, including infrastructure development; 

 (c) $8,066,400 for contractual services to cover requirements for data 
processing services, software and storage services, including: 

 (i) $1,012,400 for projects related to the collaboration track for facilitating 
the work of cross-functional teams, improving process efficiencies, social 
networking and case and correspondence management; 

 (ii) $2,452,300 for projects related to content management initiatives for 
records management, the authoring of parliamentary documents, the migration 
of existing official documents, standardized publishing methods with 
workflow and collaboration integration; 

 (iii) $1,399,300 for projects related to Web content management, including 
the harmonization of regional commission and departmental websites, 
enterprise search and the replacement of iSeek; 

 (iv) $933,700 for services related to the implementation of enterprise content 
management infrastructure; 

 (v) $1,105,500 for software licences for the enterprise content management 
software; 

 (vi) $1,084,000 for storage and backup services for enterprise content 
management-related content;  

 (vii) $79,200 for service-level agreement charges for telecommunications and 
technology for the general temporary assistance positions and consultants 
referred to above. 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

11 09-60895 
 

 (d) $1,338,300 under general operating expenses to cover costs for the rental 
of premises, alterations and improvements, communications for the office and 
general temporary assistance positions and contractors detailed above and the 
maintenance of enterprise content management equipment; 

 (e) $22,000 to cover standard costs for supplies and materials; 

 (f) $1,633,300 under furniture and equipment, largely to provide for the 
acquisition of information and communications technology equipment to support 
enterprise content management at Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters 
and regional commissions, as well as additional software for Web content 
management and office and information technology equipment for the general 
temporary assistance positions and contractors detailed above. 

24. The Secretary-General’s proposals for an additional 11 positions (5 P-4 and 
6 P-3) would more than double the current capacity of nine staff dedicated to the 
implementation of enterprise content management (1 D-1, 2 P-5, 2 P-4, 3 P-3 and 
1 P-2). The 11 new positions requested include one P-4 and one P-3 for each of the 
five implementation tracks. Some of the functions of the additional positions 
requested build on existing capacity. For example, among the nine existing staff 
members, one P-5, one P-4, one P-3 and one P-2 are already involved or dedicated 
to collaboration activities and one P-5 and one P-4, as well as the D-1 Director, are 
involved in overall coordination of the enterprise content management 
implementation and the management track. Furthermore, the Advisory Committee 
notes that in resolution 63/287, the General Assembly provided resources under the 
support account for peacekeeping operations for 2009/10 for a number of enterprise 
content management initiatives, such as the enhancement of collaboration 
capabilities throughout field missions. The Department of Field Support has already 
acquired considerable experience and specialized skills in knowledge-sharing, 
collaboration and information management through initiatives such as the 
establishment of communities of practice and the deployment of best practices 
officers in peacekeeping missions.  

25. With respect to the resources requested under contractual services, the 
Advisory Committee notes that nearly $6 million of the $8.1 million proposed is for 
activities related to collaboration, Web content and content management, while the 
remaining $2.1 million is for software, storage and support. 

26. The Advisory Committee is of the view that, rather than doubling the size 
of the Knowledge Management Service, maximum use should be made of 
existing capacity. It also believes that every effort should be made to draw upon 
the experience and skills available in house and to reassess requirements as the 
various enterprise content management implementation activities progress. 
Accordingly, the Committee recommends approval of 7 of the 11 positions 
(3 P-4 and 4 P-3) proposed for the Knowledge Management Service and a 
reduction of $1 million in the proposed $8,066,400 under contractual services. 
The Committee recommends approval of the full amount of the remaining 
proposals related to non-post resources. 
 
 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 12 
 

 C. Customer relationship management  
 
 

27. Customer relationship management is one of the components of the resource 
management programme. It is targeted towards the provision of day-to-day services 
for end-users in a variety of areas, such as information and communications 
technology support, administrative support for operations in human resources, travel 
services, payroll and insurance, as well as the provision of diverse services to 
Member States and agencies. 

28. As indicated by the Secretary-General, each service delivery group operates 
independently of the other, thus increasing the risk of duplication, inefficiencies and 
higher costs arising from the maintenance of multiple service desks, as well as 
inconvenience for customers who have to deal with multiple service providers with 
different working procedures. The weaknesses of the current situation and the 
rationale for change are set out in detail in paragraphs 66 to 71 of the Secretary-
General’s report. 

29. According to the Secretary-General, the objective of customer relationship 
management is to create an Organization-wide common service management 
framework based on an integrated system and a common set of policies and 
procedures. The main ongoing initiative of the customer relationship management 
project, entitled “iNeed”, consists of standardizing the processes of service desks 
and consolidating the service desks using an enterprise solution. In the first phase of 
iNeed, the consolidation of information and communications technology and 
facilities management services is envisaged for an initial deployment by the end of 
2009 in the Office of Information and Communications Technology, the Department 
of Field Support, the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy, the United 
Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, the United Nations Mission in Liberia and the 
United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti. Subsequently, over the next two to 
three years, the baseline product will be rolled out to offices away from 
Headquarters. In parallel, additional service types, such as travel, human resources 
management and conference services, are to be incorporated into the integrated 
system. In addition, a self-service portal will be implemented in 2010 for 
information and communications technology and facility services after the initial 
deployment at the end of 2009.  

30. Further details on current project activities are provided in paragraphs 86 to 92 
of the Secretary-General’s report. The activities envisaged in 2010-2011 include: 

 (a) Operation, maintenance and stabilization of iNeed; 

 (b) Implementation of the self-service portal; 

 (c) Deployment of iNeed in five additional duty stations, which are to be 
determined before the end of 2009;  

 (d) Analysis of the next service type to be deployed using iNeed. 

31. The Secretary-General affirms that customer relationship management will 
improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of services provided to end-users. He has 
identified a number of areas in which efficiency gains are expected and where there 
is potential for cost savings (paras. 77-85). The Advisory Committee notes that 
iNeed will automate current manual processes and replace the existing legacy 
systems that are used to manage service requests. Upon enquiry, the Committee was 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

13 09-60895 
 

provided with additional information on expected efficiency gains resulting from the 
automated processing of customer service requests, which is set out in annex IV.  

32. The Secretary-General’s analysis projects total estimated annual savings at 
between $5,776,000 and $12,180,000 once customer relationship management is 
fully deployed for information and communications technology and facilities 
services at Headquarters and offices away from Headquarters and for information 
and communications technology in all peacekeeping missions. He expects that 
savings will start accruing once self-service has been implemented. Additional 
savings could be expected when information and communications technology 
service desks outside the Department of Field Support and the Office of Information 
and Communications Technology have also migrated to the common customer 
relationship management platform. Once self-service has been implemented, savings 
resulting from the initial deployment of customer relationship management in 
mid-2010 are expected to range between $1,784,000 and $3,703,000 per year. The 
expected annual savings would range between $3,973,000 and $8,398,000 if the 
system is extended to five offices away from Headquarters in 2010-2011, and 
between $4,102,000 and $9,226,000 in 2012-2013 when information and 
communications technology service desks in all seven offices away from 
Headquarters have been implemented.  

33. The Advisory Committee considers that a quantitative analysis of the 
activities automated with the implementation of customer relationship 
management should be carried out so as to provide an objective basis for 
measuring the efficiencies actually realized. In view of the imminent 
implementation of the first phase of customer relationship management, by the 
end of 2009, the Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be 
requested to ensure that appropriate mechanisms are in place for gathering the 
necessary data before the systems are deployed. The Committee has commented 
more extensively on the issue of estimating and harvesting efficiency gains in 
section III below, on enterprise resource planning. 
 

  Funding requirements  
 

34. As indicated in paragraph 5 of the Secretary-General’s report, pending the 
conclusion of the structural review of information technology in the Secretariat and 
the consideration of possibilities for consolidating information and communications 
technology units and changes in the structure and staffing levels of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology, the Secretary-General is proposing to 
provide the human resources required for the biennium 2010-2011 through general 
temporary assistance and contractual services. Any conversion of general temporary 
assistance positions and contractual resources to posts would be proposed for 
consideration by the General Assembly following the outcome of the structural 
review. 

35. In paragraph 96 of his report, the Secretary-General states his intention to 
build internal capacity for managing and supporting the deployment of customer 
relationship management and to reduce the Organization’s reliance on external 
vendors. The Advisory Committee is supportive of this approach and believes 
that in-house expertise should be developed with respect to the systems that 
support the core activities and needs of the Organization.  



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 14 
 

36. The Secretary-General provides little information on the estimated overall 
costs over the five-year span of the implementation of customer relationship 
management, the expenditures already incurred or the estimated costs for the 
maintenance of the system once it is fully deployed. Upon enquiry, the Advisory 
Committee was informed that the yearly cost for software maintenance, hardware 
maintenance and information and communications technology personnel supporting 
the system was estimated to range between $35 and $40 per service recipient. 
Furthermore, the Secretariat expects the cost per service recipient to decrease as the 
system is deployed to additional offices and departments.  

37. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was provided with a summary of the 
resources provided for customer relationship management activities to date, which 
is contained in annex III. The Committee notes that a total amount of $4,360,900 
was approved under the support account for peacekeeping operations for 2009/10, 
comprising $4,029,500 under information technology and $331,400 under general 
temporary assistance, to provide for one P-5 and one P-3 position (resolution 
63/287). 
 

  Resource requirements for the biennium 2010-2011 
 

38. The overall resources requested for the ongoing implementation of customer 
relationship management for the biennium 2010-2011, including iNeed 
maintenance, the development of the self-service portal and the deployment of 
iNeed to five information and communications technology and facility service desks 
at offices away from Headquarters, amount to $4,433,000, broken down as follows: 

 (a) $1,286,800 under other staff costs to provide for five additional general 
temporary assistance positions as follows:  

 (i) One P-4 Application Administrator to lead the management of the 
application infrastructure design and implementation; 

 (ii) Two P-3 Customer Relationship Management Business Analysts to work 
with business communities to perform process gap analysis, functional flow 
design, functional usability documentation, application testing and user 
communication activities; 

 (iii) Two P-2 Developers to assist with the technical design and specifications 
documentation; 

 (b) $70,000 under official travel to provide for trips to offices away from 
Headquarters to conduct business workshops and user training; 

 (c) $2,419,200 under contractual services, mostly for customer relationship 
management expert services ($2,001,600) to augment the existing staff capacity in 
project management, user training and data migration activities. The remainder 
($417,400) would provide mainly for storage and backup services; 

 (d) $440,400 under general operating expenses to provide for the rental of 
premises ($286,000), alterations and improvements ($83,000), communications 
($39,000) for the office and general temporary assistance positions and contractors 
detailed above, and the maintenance of customer relationship management 
equipment ($32,400); 

 (e) $5,000 to cover standard costs under supplies and materials. 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

15 09-60895 
 

39. The Advisory Committee is of the view that further efforts should be made 
to fully utilize in-house capacity in the implementation of customer relationship 
management functions. It therefore recommends approval of (a) four of the five 
additional general temporary assistance positions proposed (1 P-4, 1 P-3 and 
2 P-2); and (b) a reduction of $500,000 in the $2,001,600 proposed for expert 
services under contractual services. The Committee recommends approval of 
the full amount of the remaining non-post resources proposed.  
 
 

 D. Proposals for a unified disaster recovery and business 
continuity plan  
 
 

40. In its resolution 59/276 (sect. XI, para. 47), the General Assembly requested 
the Secretary-General to submit a technical study on information and 
communications technology security, business continuity and disaster recovery, with 
detailed costing and a timetable. The Secretary-General submitted proposals for a 
global operational framework in that regard in his report on information and 
communications technology security, disaster recovery and business continuity for 
the United Nations (A/62/477). However, some of those proposals have been 
superseded as a result of subsequent events and the emergence of new requirements, 
in particular the establishment of a central business continuity management unit to 
address business continuity issues on a broader, Organization-wide basis, taking into 
account pandemic planning and other non-information and communications 
technology aspects (see A/64/472 and A/64/7/Add.8), as well as the requirement for 
a new secondary data centre in the context of the relocations due to the capital 
master plan (see A/64/346/Add.1).  

41. In its resolutions 63/262 and 63/269, the General Assembly provided guidance 
for the development of new proposals for a unified approach to robust disaster 
recovery and business continuity, and requested the Secretary-General to: 

 (a) Undertake a classification of critical and non-critical systems of the 
Secretariat and provide to the General Assembly an inventory of systems classified 
according to their degree of criticality at the time of its consideration of the proposal 
for a permanent secondary data centre for United Nations Headquarters; 

 (b) Prioritize systems to minimize the cost of disaster recovery and business 
continuity; 

 (c) Consolidate systems in central data centres to strengthen disaster 
recovery and business continuity and minimize the size of local primary and 
secondary data centres; 

 (d) Ensure the use of enterprise data centres rather than local data centres as 
far as possible; 

 (e) Re-engineer systems to support the long-term goal of managing data 
recovery and business continuity in system-wide enterprise data centres and where, 
from a long-term perspective, it is more cost-effective than hosting them in local 
data centres; 

 (f) Fully explore the possibilities for consolidating and using the most 
reliable and cost-effective solution for data storage, business continuity services and 
hosting of enterprise systems; 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 16 
 

 (g) Ensure that the level of protection proposed for systems has been subject 
to a thorough cost-benefit analysis. 

The Secretary-General is to submit to the General Assembly a unified disaster 
recovery and business continuity plan, including a permanent solution for 
Headquarters in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 
2012-2013 (see resolution 63/262, sect. IV, para. 12; see also para. 48 (f) below). 

42. In his report (A/64/477), the Secretary-General focuses on the realignment of 
the proposals contained in his earlier report (A/62/477) with the above-mentioned 
guidelines and principles, as well as with the work being carried out by the Business 
Continuity Management Unit on business continuity and on pandemic planning. The 
Advisory Committee notes that the Unit addresses the planning needed to ensure 
that the Organization can continue its critical functions under all circumstances, 
while the information and communications technology disaster recovery programme 
deals with planning for the resumption of information and communications 
technology infrastructure and services after a disruption that adversely impacts 
critical business functions (A/64/477, paras. 104-106).  

43. The Secretary-General also sets out a high-level strategy and objectives for 
disaster recovery (paras. 120-129). The Advisory Committee notes that the 
information and communications technology disaster recovery plan will address 
only critical systems and communications and that recovery activities will be 
conducted in a phased approach, with an emphasis on efficiency and effectiveness, 
using existing information and communications technology infrastructure and 
facilities. The Secretary-General further proposes the establishment of two 
enterprise data centres in geographically diverse locations, namely, Brindisi, Italy, 
and a second site yet to be determined. Both facilities will host mission-critical 
enterprise systems and services for the Secretariat and provide a range of backup 
and fail-over capabilities in support of disaster recovery and business continuity 
operations. The Committee also notes that the Secretariat proposes to adopt 
international standard 24762 of the International Organization for 
Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC 24762) 
(guidelines for information and communications technology disaster recovery 
services) as the basic framework for the development of a unified disaster recovery 
and business continuity plan (paras. 109-118).  

44. The activities to be undertaken in connection with the development and 
implementation of the unified disaster recovery and business continuity plan are 
described in paragraphs 130 to 136 of the report. Key activities include:  

 (a) A study to be conducted for the classification and prioritization of 
information and communications technology systems, including a business impact 
analysis to be carried out by the Business Continuity Management Unit at 12 duty 
stations for determining the extent to which local primary and local secondary data 
centres are required at each duty station, as well as their size and scope; 

 (b) An upgrade of the data centre infrastructure at the United Nations 
Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy, for site recovery and data protection. 

45. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was informed that the information 
gathered in the context of the above-mentioned study on classification, prioritization 
and business impact would be utilized to determine factors such as the acceptable 
period of downtime that could be incurred for each system and the level of 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

17 09-60895 
 

protection to be provided. In general, the costs of protecting systems against failures 
are inversely proportional to the length of the acceptable downtime period. These 
factors would also be used in cost-benefit analyses when evaluating the costs of 
protection against the risks to be mitigated. In this context, the role of departments 
in the prioritization of systems will be to provide objective input as to their critical 
business processes. The Committee was further informed that the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology and the Business Continuity 
Management Unit would work closely with departments in identifying and 
prioritizing the functions and the supporting processes, taking into account the 
relative costs and effectiveness of alternate options for disaster recovery, including 
information and communications technology systems. The Committee emphasizes 
the need to ensure that disaster recovery requirements are based on objective 
needs and that the most cost-effective solutions are fully explored.  

46. The Advisory Committee recalls that in resolution 63/262 (sect. IV, para. 13), 
the General Assembly requested the Secretary-General to fully explore the 
possibilities for consolidating and using the most reliable and cost-effective solution 
for data storage, business continuity services and hosting of enterprise systems, 
drawing on the experience of other United Nations entities and global developments 
in information and communications technology, and to report to the General 
Assembly on the matter. The Committee trusts that the Secretary-General is 
exploring all such options and will report to the General Assembly on the 
results of his review and provide justification as to the cost-effectiveness of the 
sites selected for hosting the enterprise data centres.  

47. The overall resources requested for the biennium 2010-2011 in relation to the 
development of a unified information and communications technology disaster 
recovery and business continuity plan are as follows: 

 (a) $384,000 under other staff costs to provide general temporary assistance 
for a P-5 Senior Disaster Recovery Officer at Headquarters to manage the activities 
associated with the proposed framework programme and to maintain a Secretariat-
wide coordinated approach; 

 (b) $108,600 to provide for travel for two specialists to each duty station to 
assess and collect data during phase 1 of the project; 

 (c) $2,830,900 under contractual services, including:  

 (i) $1,700,000 for professional services, including $1,200,000 for the 
conduct of a business impact study and a risk assessment study in each of the 
12 duty stations, at $100,000 per duty station, and $500,000 for the 
reformulation of the disaster recovery strategy and the definition of global 
architecture for implementing a unified disaster recovery and business 
continuity plan; 

 (ii) $1,127,300 to provide for ongoing operation of the enterprise data centre 
at the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy, for a service-level 
agreement to cover the costs of maintenance of equipment and services.  

The Advisory Committee recommends approval of the Secretary-General’s 
proposals related to the unified disaster recovery and business continuity plan. 
 
 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 18 
 

 E. Conclusions and recommendations 
 
 

48. In paragraphs 149 (a) to (f) of his report (A/64/477), the Secretary-
General sets out a series of requests of the General Assembly. The Advisory 
Committee’s recommendations are as follows: 

 (a) The Committee recommends that the General Assembly note the 
proposals and approach described in the present report for the implementation 
of enterprise content management, customer relationship management and 
business continuity and disaster recovery planning; 

 (b) Taking into account its recommendations in paragraph 26 above, the 
Advisory Committee recommends approval of $11,947,900 for the continuation 
of the enterprise content management project for the biennium 2010-2011;  

 (c) Taking into account its recommendations in paragraph 39 above, the 
Advisory Committee recommends approval of $3,563,900 for the continuation 
of the customer relationship management project for the biennium 2010-2011;  

 (d) Taking into account its recommendations in paragraph 47 above, the 
Advisory Committee recommends approval of $3,392,300 for undertaking the 
development of a unified disaster recovery plan and for maintaining the 
Brindisi enterprise data centre for the biennium 2010-2011;  

 (e) Taking into account its recommendations in subparagraphs (b) to (d) 
above, the Advisory Committee recommends that the General Assembly 
approve a total amount of $19,421,900 gross ($18,904,100 net) for the biennium 
2010-2011 under section 28D, Office of Central Support Services ($1,190,800) 
and section 29, Office of Information and Communications Technology 
($17,713,300); and section 36, Staff assessment ($517,800), to be offset by a 
corresponding amount under income section 1, Income from staff assessment, 
of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011; 

 (f) The Advisory Committee recommends that the General Assembly 
note that comprehensive plans on disaster recovery and business continuity for 
Secretariat entities, including requirements for the maintenance and 
monitoring phase of the information and communications technology disaster 
recovery plan, will be submitted for consideration in the context of the 
proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013. 
 
 

 III. First progress report on the enterprise resource  
planning project  
 
 

49. The first progress report on the enterprise resource planning project is 
submitted pursuant to General Assembly resolution 63/262, in which the Secretary-
General was requested to report to the Assembly at the main part of its sixty-fourth 
session on the enterprise resource planning (ERP) project, including an assessment 
of the organizational arrangements; a revised enterprise resource planning project 
implementation plan and updated budget; an updated business case with details on 
tangible and measurable efficiency and productivity gains to be achieved through 
the implementation of ERP as well as benchmarks for measuring progress and the 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

19 09-60895 
 

anticipated return on investment; and options for a reduced enterprise resource 
planning package at lower cost. 

50. In its report for the biennium ended 31 December 2007, the Board of Auditors 
noted that the enterprise resource planning project was one of the main drivers to 
make the overall management of the Administration more modern and uniform 
(A/63/5 (Vol. I), para. 125). The Committee has also emphasized the potential of 
ERP to transform and modernize administrative functions and streamline working 
methods across the Organization. In his current report (A/64/380) the Secretary-
General further emphasizes the role of ERP in facilitating and enabling 
administrative reforms.  
 
 

 A. Benefits and efficiency gains 
 
 

51. In section II of his report (A/64/380), the Secretary-General makes a detailed 
presentation of the benefits that are expected from the implementation of the 
enterprise resource planning project, with a view to making a business case 
justifying the investment in ERP. The Secretary-General indicates that the benefits 
analysis was conducted according to a structured methodology, on the basis of 
consultative visits to multiple duty stations, the collection of data for each 
functional area from current systems, cross-checking against industry benchmarks, 
and extensive validation of data and assumptions by users and the Enterprise 
Resource Planning Steering Committee. 

52. The analysis of qualitative benefits builds on the elements presented in 
section III.B of the report of the Secretary-General on enterprise systems for the 
United Nations Secretariat worldwide (A/62/510/Rev.1) and sets out in some detail 
the advantages to be expected in terms of improved accountability; enhanced 
transparency; strengthened internal controls across the broad range of financial, 
procurement and staffing processes; improved consistency in the application of rules 
and operating procedures in all administrative disciplines; reporting; and higher 
client satisfaction. The system will also allow for the integration of human resources 
management, payroll and finance functions under a shared system for all United 
Nations personnel. The close integration of supply chain functions will improve 
operational effectiveness and timeliness. In the area of finance, the ERP system will 
enable compliance with the International Public Sector Accounting Standards 
(IPSAS). In addition, the Secretary-General indicates that the interconnection 
between ERP systems facilitates the implementation of data replication procedures, 
thereby providing inherent disaster recovery and business capabilities.  

53. The Committee notes that the integrated system is intended to provide a single 
source of complete, reliable and timely information on human, financial and 
physical resources. It emphasizes the importance of fully exploiting this information 
to provide improved and more accurate reports to support management decision-
making. The Committee trusts that the system will further support decision-making 
by linking programmes and operations to resources, and respond to the needs of 
Member States in reviewing administrative and budgetary proposals. Furthermore, 
the system should facilitate access to reports by United Nations staff and Member 
States. Upon enquiry, the Committee was informed that ERP implementation covers 
all functionalities, including programme management, results-based management 
and risk management.  



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 20 
 

54. The Secretary-General has also identified expected productivity and efficiency 
gains1 in each functional area by type of activity, and has translated those gains in 
terms of a high and a low range of savings in staff time, consolidated as full-time 
equivalents, and converted to financial values using the average cost of the full-time 
equivalents performing those tasks (see A/64/380, annex I). According to the 
Secretary-General, the estimated annual aggregate efficiency and productivity gains, 
expressed in financial terms, range between $134 million and $224 million, or 705 
to 1,180 full-time equivalents.2 He states that the gains will occur once the system is 
fully deployed and stabilized, and will accrue progressively, over time, subject to 
the conditions set out in paragraphs 52 and 53 of his report. Those conditions 
include the continued support of all stakeholders and the application of established 
best practices in areas such as user education, the transfer of knowledge from 
specialist external resources to United Nations staff, quality assurance and 
communications.  

55. The Committee notes the efforts made to carry out this first quantitative 
analysis of potential productivity and efficiency gains, in response to the 
General Assembly’s request for the identification of tangible and measurable 
efficiency gains arising from the project (resolution 63/262, sect. II, para. 11). It 
notes the opportunities for such savings through the automation of heavily manual 
tasks in areas such as the processing of entitlements (415 FTE) and accounts 
payable (114 FTE). The Secretary-General states that the productivity gains do not 
represent or suggest a net decrease in posts or savings in staff costs, but rather, a 
potential to redirect resources towards higher priority tasks, to compensate for gaps 
in current processes. The Advisory Committee considers that a more systematic 
and detailed approach to harvesting efficiency gains is required. The Secretary-
General should strengthen his analysis and identify administrative resources 
that can be released as a result of the implementation of the ERP project. It 
points out that it would be up to the General Assembly to decide on the disposal 
of those resources. The Committee emphasizes that, in an organization such as 
the United Nations, in which administrative functions constitute a significant 
share of the overall activity, administrative reform should lead to reduced 
administrative burdens and costs.  

56. In this connection, the Committee notes that workforce planning is being 
introduced Secretariat-wide during the biennium 2008-2009 in order to undertake a 
more strategic, proactive and planned approach to human resources management 
(A/64/267). In its related report (A/64/518), the Committee has recommended that 
the Secretary-General, inter alia, make use of strategic workforce planning 
techniques to provide a clearer picture of ongoing functions, as well as an estimate 
of how many staff members in the major occupational groups are required to ensure 
the effective implementation of the Organization’s mandates. The workforce 
planning exercise should also be used to determine the critical skills and 
competencies that will be required to align the Organization’s staffing structure with 

__________________ 

 1  In paragraph 32 of his report, the Secretary-General states that productivity measures output per 
unit of labour: by eliminating or reducing time currently spent on administrative tasks, 
opportunities will be created for United Nations staff to focus on more value-added activities 
across the Organization. Efficiency is a measure of how well inputs are converted to outputs and 
can be measured as the reduction in cost for the delivery of the same service at the same level of 
quality. 

 2  At an average annual cost of $190,000 per full-time equivalent. 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

21 09-60895 
 

programmatic goals and the evolving needs of the Organization, taking into account 
the impact of the implementation of the enterprise resource planning project on the 
nature of administrative activities to be performed, including the low-value 
activities that will become redundant and the high-value tasks that may require new 
skills. Furthermore, the significant number of retirements in the next five years 
provides an opportunity for reviewing and aligning the staffing structure to the 
needs of the Organization, in the light of the modernization of administrative 
functions which will result from the full deployment of the ERP system. 
 
 

 B. Project governance 
 
 

57. An assessment of organizational arrangements is provided in paragraphs 64 to 
69 of the report. The Secretary-General indicates that the current arrangements 
provide an effective structure for the management of project activities and timely 
decision-making. The Committee reaffirms its view that there is a need for clear 
lines of responsibility and accountability for the overall project. In its previous 
report on information and communications technology (A/63/487, paras. 52-53) the 
Committee had also stressed that, in view of the impact of the implementation of 
ERP on work processes, roles and responsibilities, its implementation should be 
viewed primarily as a business project and that it was therefore understandable that 
the Chairperson of the ERP Steering Committee (the Under-Secretary-General for 
Management) should have overall responsibility for the project.  

58. The Committee notes that since the issuance of its previous report, 
membership of the project Steering Committee has been expanded to include 
unrepresented organizational and geographic entities. It was further informed that 
user committees with an advisory role are to be established at offices away from 
Headquarters so as to ensure appropriate involvement of user departments during 
the planning and implementation of ERP. The Committee considers this to be a 
positive step. It is of the view that the composition of the Steering Committee, 
as reflected in annex VI to its report (A/63/487), is heavily tilted towards service 
providers and that increased representation of user departments is desirable. 
Furthermore, the Advisory Committee considers that, as one of the largest 
entities of the Secretariat, the Department for General Assembly and 
Conference Management should be represented in the ERP governance 
structure, and requests that consideration be given to extending membership of 
the ERP Steering Committee to that Department. 
 
 

 C. Implementation strategy 
 
 

59. The Secretary-General indicates in paragraph 57 of his report, that the 
implementation of ERP projects is usually broken down into four major phases: 
(i) preparation, during which the project structure and team are set up, service 
providers and tools are selected, operational requirements are collected and 
analysed, opportunities for improvement are evaluated and existing business 
processes and systems are documented; (ii) design, during which a blueprint for the 
future solution is established and a detailed implementation plan for the subsequent 
phases is developed; (iii) build, during which the organization’s solution is 
configured into the standard software according to the blueprint, the system is 
thoroughly tested, the technical infrastructure is implemented and the user 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 22 
 

community is trained; and (iv) deployment, during which the organization 
transitions to the new working methods and systems, which itself is performed in 
several phases.  

60. In paragraph 82 of his report, the Secretary-General sets out the major cost 
drivers of ERP implementation. Some of the key elements to be considered in 
developing an implementation strategy are the range of functions to be covered, 
whether they are introduced simultaneously or in phases and the number of 
deployments for rolling out the new system to all locations. 

61. The Secretary-General’s previous proposals on the ERP implementation 
strategy (A/62/510/Rev.1, paras. 40-45) suggested that the ERP project would be 
designed, built, tested and deployed in two waves: the first to be completed over a 
30-month period by the end of 2010, for the core finance, human resources, 
procurement and asset management functions required for compliance with the 
International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS); and a second wave over 
a 24-month period for design-build-test-deployment of the remaining functions, 
such as results-based management, risk management, transportation and travel. The 
Secretary-General explains that, following an analysis of the ERP software and the 
United Nations high-level business processes, as well as the experiences of other 
organizations having implemented ERP projects, it was determined that this 
implementation approach entails additional costs.  

62. The Committee notes that the report of the Secretary-General does not provide 
a detailed analysis of the consideration given to the General Assembly’s request for 
options for a reduced ERP package at lower cost (resolution 63/262, sect. II, 
para. 26 (g)). Upon enquiry, the Committee was informed that there was no realistic 
opportunity to reduce the scope of the ERP project. The project addresses the 
management of resources in four functional areas, human resources, finance and 
budget, supply chain/logistics/procurement and central support services. The 
Secretariat conducts its work in each of these areas. If any of these four functional 
areas were not to be covered by ERP, separate systems would be required for the 
management of those resources. Further, given the tight interdependence between 
data related to each functional area, for example, staff and payroll, procurement and 
accounts receivable, it would be necessary to put into place mechanisms for 
exchanging data between the different systems being maintained.  

63. Concerning the possibility of phased implementation of the various 
functionalities, the Committee was informed that the Secretariat’s analysis 
determined that this would be among the most costly and least effective approaches, 
because it would entail: (a) a high redundancy of major, resource-intensive tasks, 
such as testing and training; (b) the need to develop a far greater number of 
interfaces with existing systems than in any other scenario; (c) the slowest 
decommissioning of existing systems; (d) the longest overall duration; and (e) the 
slowest time-to-benefit realization due to the longer period required for the 
implementation of full integration. In addition, the Secretary-General determined 
that this option was ill-suited to addressing the particular challenges in 
peacekeeping in the short or even medium term. The “IPSAS first” and “by 
function” options are based on a phased introduction of functionalities and are 
discussed in paragraphs 85 and 86 of the Secretary-General’s report (see also table 3 
of that report).  



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

23 09-60895 
 

64. The Committee was informed that, in view of the absence of a viable option 
for reducing the scope of the implementation of ERP, the Secretary-General had 
examined alternative deployment scenarios, in which the complete ERP system, 
with all functionalities, would be developed, and then deployed in stages to the 
entire Organization. The Secretary-General proposes, the “Pilot first” deployment 
option, which as its name suggests, consists of a small-scale initial deployment of 
the complete ERP system in a fully operational but contained environment, followed 
by deployment to the rest of the Organization in two phases, after the system is 
tested and stabilized. The arguments in favour of this option are presented in 
paragraph 84 of the report. The Secretary-General concludes that costs will be best 
contained and risks mitigated if the complete system is first designed and built, and 
then deployed Secretariat-wide in an incremental approach. This recommended 
option projects implementation of the pilot in the fourth quarter of 2011 and 
Organization-wide deployment by the third quarter of 2013. The Committee notes 
that the timeline of the IPSAS implementation project will have to be adjusted to 
synchronize with the revised timetable for the deployment of ERP.  

65. The Committee notes the explanations and analysis provided to it, upon 
enquiry, concerning the cost drivers and the factors which determine the level of 
cost-effectiveness and risk-aversion of each option. In the Committee’s view, the 
Secretary-General could have provided more detailed information in his report on 
his analysis of the various alternatives, as well as the costs and benefits of each 
option. 
 
 

 D. Linkages to other systems 
 
 

66. In paragraph 63 of his report, the Secretary-General provides information on a 
number of related initiatives being implemented concurrently with ERP within the 
United Nations Secretariat and missions, including: IPSAS implementation, the 
talent management system (recruitment and staffing), Lean Six Sigma (non-systems 
process improvement), enterprise content management and customer relationship 
management, as well as a fuel management system and a rations management 
system for peacekeeping functions. The Committee notes that the ERP team will 
continue to work closely with the various project teams throughout the design phase 
and beyond to avoid duplication of effort and ensure harmonization of processes and 
platforms.  

67. The Committee requested additional information on the main functions within 
each of the four major functional areas of enterprise resource planning (finance and 
budget; human resources; supply chain; central support services), with an indication 
of those that are to be linked to other information systems and those that are to be 
provided through systems other than ERP. That additional information is provided in 
annex V to the present report. The Committee notes from the additional information 
that the definitive list of the functions to be provided by ERP could only be 
confirmed after the design phase is completed. 

68. The Committee emphasizes the need to ensure that the core functions for the 
management of financial, human and physical resources are integrated into the ERP 
system. The use of different systems to provide such core functions will generate 
additional costs for the integration of those systems and the development of 
customized interfaces to exchange and merge data between systems, which will then 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 24 
 

need to be updated and aligned as the systems evolve (see also paras. 62-63 above). 
The Committee points out that the lack of integrated, coherent information is a 
major weakness of the current information and communications technology 
environment, which impedes the Organization’s ability to manage its resources 
effectively and Member States’ ability to make informed decisions, and which was 
also a key factor leading to the decision to replace the Integrated Management 
Information System (IMIS). Furthermore, systems and processes for functions such 
as staff selection and budget preparation are heavily manual and time-consuming, 
and present major inefficiencies in terms of the time and the number of staff 
required to accomplish those functions (see A/63/487, para. 46; A/64/7, paras. 44 
and 49). 

69. The Committee recommends that the ERP Steering Committee identify 
and review all systems providing core functions for the management of human, 
financial and physical resources, and that the implementation of such systems 
be closely coordinated with the ERP project team, with a view to ensuring that 
the current fragmentation of systems is not perpetuated. Furthermore, future 
ERP annual progress reports should include information on interfaces and 
linkages with other systems. The Committee also requests that a comprehensive 
picture be provided in the context of the annual progress report, of the business 
process improvements and benefits expected through the implementation of 
systems for the management of human, financial and physical resources. 
 
 

 E. Project status  
 
 

70. Information on the status of the project and on the activities completed thus far 
is provided in paragraphs 56 to 62 of the report. The Committee notes that the 
preparatory phase has been completed and that several key outputs were delivered in 
July 2009, including finalized documentation on current processes, an inventory of 
existing systems, the outcome of high-level design workshops involving over 220 
subject matter experts from key offices, duty stations and missions, costing models 
for different implementation scenarios, a comparative analysis of implementation 
strategies and scenarios, and a comprehensive business case.  

71. The design phase commenced in May 2009 and is ongoing. The Secretary-
General states that the project is running behind schedule owing to insufficient 
funding. It is expected that the design phase will be completed in the second quarter 
of 2010, rather than in the early part of that year, as planned. Upon enquiry, the 
Committee was provided with details on the status of expenditures related to the 
sum of $20 million provided by the General Assembly for the ERP project for the 
biennium 2008-2009 (see resolution 63/262). As of the end of September 2009, 
expenditures totalled some $15 million, including $7 million for contractual services 
and $4.3 million for other staff costs, as shown in table 1. 
 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

25 09-60895 
 

  Table 1 
ERP project expenditures 
 

Object of expenditure As of 30/09/2009 

Other staff costs 4 271 394 

Consultants 529 010 

Travel 714 707 

Contractual services 6 999 352 

General operating expenses 1 738 353 

Supplies and materials 4 730 

Furniture and equipment 745 916 

 Total 15 003 462 
 
 

72. The Secretary-General’s report does not provide a timeline for the ERP 
project. Upon enquiry, the Committee was provided with figure 1 below, showing 
the time frame for the completion of the four phases of the project over the period 
2007-2013. The Committee considers that an overview of the functional and 
geographical scope of the project, as well as a more detailed timeline, should be 
provided in future progress reports, showing, for each of the four phases of the 
project, the key activities, milestones and project deliverables, as well as the 
dependencies between the major activities. In order to bring some clarity to the 
accomplishments of the preparatory phase, information on the activities 
already completed should also be included in the timeline. The Committee 
considers that an overview of the level of resources required for each key 
activity should also be provided, such as the number of work months of project 
staff, subject matter experts and consultants, and other costs, such as for travel. 
In view of the fact that the Secretary-General will be reporting to the General 
Assembly on an annual basis over the duration of this multi-year project, it is 
important to establish a baseline for the project at the outset, which can then be 
updated in future annual progress reports, so as to provide a clear picture of 
the project plan, the progress made, outstanding activities and the utilization of 
resources. 
 

  Figure 1 
ERP project time frame 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 F. Overall project budget  
 
 

73. The overall resource requirements for the implementation of the ERP project 
in the Secretariat over a five-year period are estimated at $315,792,300 at current 

Approved by the General Assembly in resolution 63/262 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 26 
 

market rates, without provision for contingency. The financing of the ERP project is 
to be shared among the main sources of funds on the basis of the formula endorsed 
by the General Assembly in its resolution 63/262 (sect. II, para. 23) and applied in 
2008-2009, as follows: 15 per cent from the regular budget, 62 per cent from the 
peacekeeping support account and 23 per cent from the special accounts for 
programme support costs.3 An indicative summary of net resource requirements for 
ERP by source of funds is provided in table 2. 
 

  Table 2 
Summary of net resource requirements by source of funds 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 

Source of funds 2008-2009 2010-2011
To end of project 

2013 Total 

Regular budget  5 110.0 24 192.2 18 066.6 47 368.8 

Peacekeeping support accounta 7 050.0 114 065.9 74 675.3 195 791.2 

Extrabudgetary 7 840.0 37 090.1 27 702.1 72 632.2 

 Total 20 000.0 175 348.2 120 444.1 315 792.3 
 

 a For 2008-2009, the amount relates to the peacekeeping period from 1 July 2008 to 30 June 
2009. 

 
 

74. Table 3 provides a breakdown of the requirements by object of expenditure. A 
further breakdown of the resource requirements by object of expenditure under each 
source of funds is provided in annex VI. 
 

  Table 3 
Summary of net resource requirements by object of expenditure 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 

Object of expenditure 2008-2009 2010-2011
2012 to end of 

project Grand total 

Posts — 22 729.9 28 312.1 51 042.0 

Other staff costs 8 893.3 19 440.0 19 439.0 47 773.3 

Consultants and experts — 3 331.2 3 331.2 6 662.4 

Travel of staff 1 071.2 7 446.8 16 064.7 24 582.7 

Contractual services 7 820.8 89 098.6 31 585.6 128 505.0 

General operating expenses 1 285.0 11 625.7 7 681.4 20 592.1 

Supplies and materials 23.5 146.0 146.0 315.5 

Furniture and equipment 906.2 21 530.0 13 883.1 36 319.3 

 Total  20 000.0 175 348.2 120 444.1 315 792.3 
 
 

__________________ 

 3  Overhead income generated by expenditures relating to technical cooperation, general trust 
funds and reimbursement for administrative support provided by the Organization to 
extrabudgetary entities, such as UNDP and UNICEF, is credited to the special accounts for 
programme support costs. 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

27 09-60895 
 

75. The Committee was informed that the resource distribution by object of 
expenditure under each source of funds, as shown in table 2 above, reflected the 
indicative distribution on the basis of proportionate share of the total. The General 
Assembly authorized the Secretary-General to establish a multi-year special account 
to record income and expenditures for this project (see resolution 63/262, sect. II, 
para. 25). Under this arrangement, the resources from each funding source will be 
sought under a single object of expenditure, “Grants and contributions”, and 
accordingly reported as such to the General Assembly. The resources approved by 
the General Assembly from the respective funding source will be managed as a 
whole in a separate consolidated account where detailed expenditures by object of 
expenditure will be maintained. Under the regular budget, the resources for ERP are 
reflected in the form of a lump-sum provision under grants and contributions in the 
programme support component under section 28 A, Office of the Under-Secretary-
General for Management, of the proposed programme budget.  

76. The Committee notes that the Organization has concluded contracts for 
strategic advisory services and the design phase, and that negotiations for the ERP 
software are ongoing (see A/64/380, para. 71). Requests for proposals for 
integration services for the subsequent phases of the project are under preparation. 
The overall estimate for the project has therefore not been established on the basis 
of firm contract costs for software and all system integration services, but represents 
an estimate of the cost of the implementation and deployment of the ERP system, 
taking into account current market pricing, the ERP project costs of other United 
Nations organizations and advice sought from industry sources. The Committee 
notes that costs for software integration services and customization will be known 
only once the business process re-engineering phase has been completed and 
specific customization requirements have been identified and formalized. 

77. An explanation of the changes in costs as compared to those in document 
A/62/510/Rev.1 is provided in paragraphs 105 to 108 of the Secretary-General’s 
report. He indicates that the overall estimate now includes a provision for start-up 
operational costs that were not included in the estimate provided previously in 
document A/62/510/Rev.1 because they are strictly operating costs and not project 
costs. The Committee was informed that the start-up costs are related to the 
establishment of an operational environment for installation of the ERP software, to 
be used by the project team during the design, build and deployment phases for 
configuration, testing and training purposes, and will also serve as the platform for 
the deployment of the system to the pilot departments. Upon enquiry, the Committee 
was provided with the breakdown of the start-up operational costs, as set out in 
table 4. 
 

  Table 4 
ERP start-up operational costs  
 

Description 2010-2011 2012-2013 Total 

Production, hardware, software and 
maintenance 10 679 700  6 459 300 17 139 000 

Posts and other staff costs  2 438 900 10 555 400 12 994 300 

Travel for support  4 620 000  4 046 700  8 666 700 

 Total 17 738 600 21 061 400 38 800 000 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 28 
 

78. The Secretary-General indicates that, taking into account lessons learned from 
other entities having implemented ERP systems, as well as from the detailed 
analysis carried out during the design phase, the estimated costs for the project have 
been adjusted with respect to the resource requirements of the ERP project team, the 
subject matter experts, training and customization of the ERP software. 
 

  ERP project team 
 

79. The Secretary-General proposes to develop in-house and institutional 
knowledge and capacity to support the system once it is launched, as well as to 
reduce the Organization’s dependence on high-cost consultants. He indicates that 
since the previous report, a comprehensive and in-depth analysis of the project 
scope and planning was conducted by the ERP team and the specialist systems 
integrator, which showed that the core ERP project team of 44 positions was 
insufficient to address the requirements of the ERP project activity, taking into 
account the complexity of the work to be accomplished, as well as timing and 
logistical considerations, and furthermore that the lack of adequate staffing would 
expose the project to unnecessary risks. Without additional resources, cumulative 
knowledge would become vested with external consultants and would be lost to the 
United Nations once the project is concluded. Moreover, it would be neither 
efficient nor effective to entrust responsibility for implementation in functional 
areas to external specialists who do not have a good knowledge of the United 
Nations. The Committee recognizes the need to develop in-house expertise and 
knowledge of the ERP system. 

80. In view of the above, the Secretary-General proposes to strengthen the ERP 
project team with an additional 36 temporary posts. The proposed staffing of the 
project team is summarized in table 5. A revised organigramme of the ERP project is 
provided in annex III to the Secretary-General’s report. 
 

  Table 5 
Post requirements 
 

Grade 2008-2009 2010-2011 2010-2013 

Professional category and above  

D-2 1 — 1 

D-1 6 — 6 

P-5 12 5 17 

P-4/3 18 25 43 

P-2/1 — 1 1 

 Subtotal 37 31 68 

General Service category  

Principal level — 1 1 

Other level 7 4 11 

 Subtotal 7 — — 

 Total 44 36 80 
 
 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

29 09-60895 
 

81. The full budget amount of $51,042,000 ($58,387,600 gross) under posts would 
provide for the establishment and continuation up to the end of the project of a 
dedicated core project team consisting of 80 temporary posts: 44 temporary posts 
converted from current general temporary assistance resources (1 D-2, 6 D-1, 
12 P-5, 13 P-4, 5 P-3 and 7 General Service (Other level)) and 36 new temporary 
posts being proposed to be established from the biennium 2010-2011 (5 P-5, 22 P-4, 
3 P-3, 1 P-2/1, 1 General Service (Principal level), 4 General Service (Other level) 
(see also para. 93 below). 
 

  Subject matter experts  
 

82. The Committee was informed that subject matter experts are required to work 
on a temporary basis with the core project team and the systems integrators to assist 
in system design, data conversion, interface development, report generation and 
testing of ERP. In addition, the subject matter experts will have a key role to play in 
training and supporting users during deployment and the post-deployment period. 
The Secretary-General emphasizes that the active participation of subject matter 
experts, who have an in-depth knowledge of their functional areas and the 
requirements of their departments/offices, is essential to ensure that ERP covers the 
required functionalities and that it is accepted by the business owners and the 
Organization. In view of the fact that the tasks to be performed are both complex 
and labour intensive, additional resources are requested to allow business owners 
from duty stations worldwide to employ limited replacements while their subject 
matter experts work with the ERP team during the build and implementation phases 
of the ERP project. The Committee was informed that the positions of the subject 
matter experts would be filled on a temporary basis if their continuous absence from 
their regular functions exceeded four weeks, and that without such a provision, there 
was a risk that managers would refuse to release subject matter experts. 

83. It is estimated that 66 subject matter experts would be required during the 
various phases of the project for each of the following five activities: review and 
validation of training materials and desk procedures; integration testing; user 
acceptance testing; training of trainers; and training of users. The full budget 
amount of $38,880,000 under other staff costs would provide for general temporary 
assistance from 2010 to the end of the project for 66 subject matter experts for 3,390 
months at an average cost of $11,470 per month, estimated on the basis of the 
average of a P-4 and General Service (Other level) net base salary using the 2010 
standard staff costs. 

84. The Committee recognizes the importance of ensuring the participation of 
the Organization’s most knowledgeable staff in the design and implementation 
of the Organization’s new operating model and of developing in-house expertise 
and knowledge of ERP in order to support the system after deployment. 
 

  Training/change management  
 

85. The Secretary-General indicates that the experience of other entities that have 
implemented ERP systems shows that the train-the-trainer approach is not as 
effective as instructor-led training. He states that, while the train-the-trainer 
approach may require lower resources initially, it has been shown to be more costly 
in the longer term, since it entails additional support costs and retraining. The full 
budget amount of $24,582,700 under travel of staff includes a provision of 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 30 
 

$11,163,900 for pilot deployment and $13,418,800 for instructor-led training on-site 
at a significant number of locations. Upon enquiry, the Committee was informed that 
the pilot deployment sites (an Economic Commission and a peacekeeping operation) 
would require considerable “hands-on” support and attention from the project team 
members and subject matter experts, both before and after the transition to ERP and, 
furthermore, that additional support would be required to support and stabilize the 
system on-site. The Committee emphasizes that every effort should be made to 
ensure the cost-effectiveness of the training strategy and training methods 
developed. It further requests the Secretary-General to ensure close 
coordination between the ERP and IPSAS project teams, with a view to seeking 
synergies and coordinating the development and delivery of training modules. 
The Committee also stresses the need to keep the ERP training plan under 
review and to adjust requirements in the light of experience and lessons learned, 
so as to ensure the most efficient utilization of resources. Close attention should 
also be paid to ensuring that the ERP training is developed in a manner that is 
consistent with the training programme of the Secretariat.  
 

  Customization 
 

86. In paragraph 117 of his report, the Secretary-General indicates that no 
customizations to the core ERP system have yet been identified. The Committee 
recalls General Assembly resolution 63/262 (sect. II, para. 12), in which the 
Secretary-General was requested to limit customization of the ERP software to 
the extent feasible in order to ensure cost-effectiveness as well as flexibility in 
upgrading to new versions of the software, and to report on any necessary 
customization and its budgetary implications, with full justification of rationale 
and cost. 
 

  Future operating costs 
 

87. The Secretary-General discusses future operating costs in paragraphs 112 to 
114 of his report, but does not provide any estimates. He states that, pending the 
completion of the design phase and negotiations for the acquisition of ERP software, 
it is not possible to forecast all future operating costs with reasonable accuracy. He 
expects to provide those forecasts at the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly. 
The Committee considers that an estimate of future operating costs is an essential 
input for informed decision-making on the Secretary-General’s proposals for the 
implementation of ERP. While the Committee recognizes that the Secretary-General 
is not in a position to provide an accurate estimate, it considers that he should be 
able to provide a range of future operating costs, taking into account the experience 
of other entities that have implemented ERP systems, as well as estimates of the cost 
of the elements enumerated in paragraph 112 of his report. Accordingly, the 
Committee requests that an estimate of a range of future operating costs be 
provided to the General Assembly at the time of its consideration of this item.  
 

  Global benchmarks for ERP implementation costs  
 

88. Upon enquiry, the Committee was informed that global benchmarks for ERP 
costs4 ranged widely, between $5,000 and $20,000 per user, depending on factors 

__________________ 

 4  On the basis of combined metrics from PricewaterhouseCoopers, Deloitte, Forrester, Aberdeen 
Group, Panorama Consulting Group, META Group and CTS. 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

31 09-60895 
 

such as organizational readiness, current process quality and integration, current 
integration of systems, geographical complexity and functional complexity. The 
costs took into account the composition of the users of the system, assuming a blend 
of high-intensity users such as clerical staff, medium-intensity users such as 
managers and self-service users (the majority of staff, retrieving/updating their own 
information) and information technology staff. The lower end of the range applied 
to relatively simple ERP implementations in environments in which little or no 
re-engineering of processes was required, the existing processes were already 
running at full efficiency, the systems were already integrated, there was little 
complexity in conversion from the old to the new system, there was high 
organizational readiness and a single or small number of geographical areas were to 
be considered. The higher end of the range applied to the most challenging 
implementations, with low readiness and a high level of diversity and complexity.  

89. The Secretary-General indicated that the United Nations project was 
considered to be at an above-average level of complexity with a medium to good 
level of readiness, to which a benchmark figure of between $10,000 and $12,000 per 
user would be applicable, with some 43,000 users worldwide. Accordingly, the 
expected benchmark cost of ERP would range between $430 million and 
$516 million, which corresponds closely with the figures given on the deployment 
options tables in the Secretary-General’s report (A/64/380, tables 3 and 4). The 
Committee was informed that this further demonstrates the cost-effectiveness of the 
“pilot first” option, which would represent a cost of approximately $7,400 per user. 
 

  Maintenance of legacy systems 
 

90. In its report on the proposed programme budget for 2010-2011, the Committee 
had recommended that further improvements to the systems that are to be replaced 
by ERP, such as IMIS, should be kept to the required minimum. Upon enquiry, the 
Committee was informed that requests for changes to legacy systems were 
monitored by the Office of Information and Communications Technology and that, 
in principle, only enhancements relating to statutory requirements, for example the 
recently mandated change to the human resources contractual policy, were 
approved. The Committee was further informed that staff supporting legacy systems 
would be required to contribute their experience and skills to the ERP project for the 
accomplishment of activities such as data cleansing, data conversion, and interface 
analysis and development, and that their degree of involvement in the ERP project 
was largely dependent on the reduction or elimination of requests for enhancing 
legacy systems. The Committee reiterates its recommendation that such 
enhancements be kept to the required minimum. It also emphasizes the need to 
involve staff with knowledge of existing systems in the ERP project, so as to 
further develop in-house expertise and capacity to support the ERP system. 
 
 

 G. Resource requirements for 2010-2011 
 
 

91. The overall requirements for the ERP project for the biennium 2010-2011 
amount to $175,348,200, comprising $24,192,200 funded from the regular budget, 
$114,065,900 from the peacekeeping support account and $37,090,100 from 
extrabudgetary funds.  



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 32 
 

92. The Committee recalls that, in the proposed programme budget for the 
biennium 2010-2011 for section 28 A, Office of the Under-Secretary-General for 
Management (A/64/6 (Sect. 28A)), the Secretary-General proposed a provision of 
$11,775,900 under grants and contributions to cover the regular budget share of the 
2010-2011 estimated total costs of the ERP project amounting to $78,506,000, based 
on the cost-sharing formula detailed in document A/62/510/Rev.1 and endorsed by 
the General Assembly in its resolution 63/262. In that report, the Secretary-General 
also indicated that preliminary estimates of the total gross budget of the project for 
the biennium 2010-2011 might amount to approximately $186 million, with the 
regular budget share amounting to $28 million, or some $16.2 million in addition to 
the amount estimated in that document.  
 

  Posts 
 

93. A provision of $22,729,900 is proposed under posts for the ERP project team, 
including the conversion of general temporary assistance positions to 44 temporary 
posts and the establishment of 36 new temporary posts. The Committee was 
informed that the 44 posts proposed for conversion from general temporary 
assistance to temporary posts are costed at the standard continuing rate for posts (a 
6.5 per cent vacancy factor for Professional posts and a 3.5 per cent vacancy factor 
for General Service posts), whereas the 36 additional temporary posts proposed for 
establishment are costed at the standard rate for new posts (a 50 per cent vacancy 
factor for Professional posts and a 35 per cent vacancy factor for General Service 
posts) (see also para. 81 above). 

94. The 36 new temporary posts (5 P-5, 22 P-4, 3 P-3, 1 P-2/1, 1 General Service 
(Principal level), 4 General Service (Other level)) are required for project 
management, organizational change management, technology management and the 
ERP functional teams, as follows:  

 (a) Project management. In addition to the three general temporary 
assistance positions proposed for conversion to temporary posts for administrative 
management (1 P-5 Administrative Officer, 1 P-4 Contracts Officer and 1 General 
Service (Other level) Administrative Assistant), four additional temporary posts are 
proposed in the areas of budget, finance, human resources, general administration 
and procurement, as follows: 

 • 2 P-4 posts 

 • 2 General Service (Other level) posts 

 (b) Organizational change management. In addition to the three existing 
general temporary assistance positions now proposed as temporary posts for change 
management (1 P-5 Change Management Officer, 1 P-3 Communications manager 
and 1 General Service (Other level) Change Management Expert), three new 
temporary posts are requested to address expanded staff training requirements as a 
result of the decision to adopt instructor-led training, which has increased the 
number of training classes and workshops that are required to be organized:  

 • 1 P-3 for training management 

 • 1 General Service (Principal level) for training coordination 

 • 1 General Service (Other level) for events planning 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

33 09-60895 
 

 (c) Technology management. Technology management encompasses 
functions for the definition of the enterprise-wide information and communications 
architecture, setting technical standards, projecting enterprise-wide ERP needs, 
evaluating the suitability of infrastructure operations and identifying gaps between 
existing infrastructure and ERP requirements. It is proposed to strengthen internal 
technology management capacity and to increase the number of internal specialists 
in ERP, who would gain cumulative knowledge that would be retained by the United 
Nations and also reduce the reliance placed on outsourced services. In addition to 
two general temporary assistance positions proposed for conversion to temporary 
posts (1 D-1 to oversee the technology management function and 1 P-5 Technology 
Infrastructure Specialist), a further 16 temporary posts (4 P-5 and 12 P-4) are 
proposed as follows: 

 • 4 P-5 Technical Architect posts for: solutions; infrastructure; business 
intelligence/data conversion; and user interface, portal and mobile technology 

 • 5 P-4 Technical Architect posts to serve as liaison for each functional area 

 • 7 P-4 Architect posts for master data management, security, reporting, portal 
solutions and workflow, mobile technology and forms, and web 2.0 solutions 

 (d) Functional teams. In addition to the 32 general temporary assistance 
positions proposed for conversion to temporary posts for the four functional teams, 
comprising eight posts for each team, 12 new temporary posts are proposed as 
follows:  

 • Finance and Budget Team. 4 P-4 posts for the management of the strategic 
framework life cycle, assets accounting, and accounts payable and receivable 

 • Supply Chain Team. A dedicated 1 P-5 for planning and demand forecasting 
because the supply chain is new to the Organization and 1 P-4 for receipt, 
warehousing, transportation and distribution of supply 

 • Human Resources Team. 1 P-2 for coordination with the Talent Management 
Team concerning on-boarding, position management, performance 
management and learning management, and the new pension system, and 
1 General Service (Other level) for information management and document 
support assistance to the team 

 • Central Support Services. 1 P-5 for the design of the Organization’s strategic 
framework and for project management, 1 P-4 for planning and trust and grant 
management, 1 P-4 for information management and 1 P-3 as a technical 
integration specialist 

The Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be requested to 
provide, in his next progress report, a plan for the downsizing of the project 
team upon completion of the ERP project and its implementation activities.  
 

  Other staff costs 
 

95. An amount of $19,440,000 is proposed to provide for 1,695 work months of 
temporary assistance at an average cost of $11,470 a month, related to the cost of 
the temporary filling of positions of subject matter experts while they are assigned 
to the ERP project. The subject matter experts are required in the design, build and 
implementation phases of the project to participate and provide assistance in a 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 34 
 

variety of activities, including reviewing and validating training materials and desk 
procedures, performing integration testing, conducting user acceptance testing, 
training users and providing support during deployment.  
 

  Consultants  
 

96. An amount of $3,331,200, comprising fees ($3,196,800) and travel costs 
($134,400), is proposed for 288 work months of specialized expertise at a cost of 
$11,100 a month and a one-time travel cost of $11,000 for each of 12 consultants. 
The provision would provide for specialized expertise not available in the 
Organization, outside the scope of the systems integration contract, in the area of 
change management, in technical areas, including mobile technology, report design 
and implementation, data warehousing and business intelligence, and in functional 
areas, including travel, central services, field operations and logistics, payroll, 
budgeting and planning, as well as management consultants to cross-check the 
project management services provided by the main contractor/systems integrator.  
 

  Travel of staff 
 

97. The proposed resource requirements in 2010-2011 of $7,446,800 would enable 
the ERP team to undertake travel assignments to support pilot project deployment 
($4,620,000), conduct change management, technical and Project Management 
Office missions ($490,000) and conduct a training workshop ($1,868,800). 
 

  Contractual services 
 

98. A provision of $89,098,600 is proposed for contractual services for systems 
integration ($86,396,900); legal expertise ($266,700) to assist during the negotiation 
of contractual terms and conditions of the licensing and maintenance agreement for 
the software and systems integration services; technical research and independent 
advice ($168,600) to evaluate recommendations provided by the systems integration 
service provider; strategic consulting on the overall project management 
($1,771,200); training services ($434,400) related to the initial assessment of 
training needs, including the setting up of training standards, model course content 
and timelines, as well as the delivery of training to end users; and training facilities 
($60,800) in locations where these are not available. 
 

  General operating expenses 
 

99. The estimated requirement of $11,625,700 is proposed for operating costs 
related to approximately 218 persons (80 core staff, 66 subject matter experts, 
12 consultants and 60 staff of the systems integration contractor), as appropriate, 
including (a) rental of premises ($6,234,800) and alterations to premises 
($3,944,300); (b) communications ($921,000); and (c) maintenance of office 
automation equipment ($525,600) in connection with the 80 core posts and subject 
matter experts.  
 

  Supplies and materials  
 

100. An estimated requirement of $146,000, based on standard costs, is proposed to 
provide for stationery and office supplies in support of the project.  
 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

35 09-60895 
 

  Furniture and equipment  
 

101. The amount of $21,530,000 is proposed to cover the costs related to the 
non-recurrent acquisition of office furniture ($1,670,000) and office automation 
equipment ($147,000) for the proposed 36 new temporary posts. Further, resources 
are required for the acquisition of computer hardware to build the development 
platform ($4,000,000), and for software licences and core software customization 
($15,713,000). 
 
 

 H. Conclusions and recommendations 
 
 

102. While recommending acceptance of the Secretary-General’s proposals, the 
Committee notes that a significant portion is based on estimates, since contracts 
for the systems integration services have not yet been concluded. The 
Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be requested to make every 
effort to reduce the overall costs of the project and to exercise prudence in the 
utilization of resources. The Secretary-General should also be requested to 
provide, in future annual progress reports, full details on the efforts made to 
contain costs, as well as project expenditures incurred and justifications for the 
utilization of resources (see para. 72 above).  

103. In paragraph 130 of his report (A/64/380), the Secretary-General sets out 
a series of requests to the General Assembly. The Committee’s 
recommendations are as follows: 

 (a) The Committee recommends that the General Assembly note the 
proposals and approach described in the Secretary-General’s report for the 
replacement of the IMIS system and related ancillary systems in all offices of 
the United Nations Secretariat, including offices away from Headquarters, 
regional commissions, peacekeeping and political missions, and other field 
missions; 

 (b) The Committee recommends that the General Assembly note the 
overall cost of the ERP project to be completed during the period 2008-2013, at 
a total project budget estimate of $323,137,900 gross ($315,792,300 net) (at 
current rates); 
 

  Regular budget 
 

 (c) The Committee recommends that the General Assembly approve a 
gross amount of $24,652,900 under grants and contributions (a net amount of 
$24,192,200) inclusive of the amount of $11,775,900 already proposed in 
document A/64/6 (Sect. 28) under section 28 A, Office of the Under-Secretary-
General for Management, of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 
2010-2011;  

 (d) The Committee recommends that the General Assembly note that the 
future remaining requirements in the estimated amount of $18,667,600 gross 
($18,066,600 net) for the implementation of ERP would be considered in the 
context of the proposed programme budget for the relevant biennium; 
 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 36 
 

  Support account for peacekeeping operations 
 

 (e) The Committee recommends that the General Assembly approve a 
total amount of $29,059,500 gross ($28,516,500 net) to be financed from the 
support account for peacekeeping operations for the period from 1 July 2009 to 
30 June 2010 to meet the requirements of ERP as contained in the present 
report; 

 (f) The Committee recommends that the General Assembly note that the 
future remaining requirements in the estimated amount of $87,178,400 gross 
($85,549,400 net) will be included in subsequent proposed support account 
requirements for the financial periods from 1 July 2010 until December 2011;  

 (g) The Committee recommends that the General Assembly note that the 
future remaining requirements in the estimated amount of $77,159,500 gross 
($74,675,300 net) will be included in subsequent proposed support account 
requirements for the financial periods until 2013; 
 

  Extrabudgetary resources 
 

 (h) The Committee recommends that the General Assembly note that an 
estimated amount of $72,632,200 of the total ERP project cost would be 
financed from extrabudgetary resources. 

 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

37 09-60895 
 

Annex I 
 

  Update on the status of implementation of the information 
and communications technology management framework 
and changes to the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology governance structures since 
the submission of document A/62/793 
 
 

1. The information and communications technology management framework 
presented in document A/62/793 was simplified in response to concerns expressed 
by the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions and the 
Fifth Committee, primarily through the elimination of the high-level programme 
steering committees. The main elements of the modified information and 
communications technology management framework for the Secretariat are as 
follows: (a) the Information and Communications Technology Executive 
Committee; (b) the Information and Communications Technology Advisory Group; 
(c) information and communications technology programme working groups; and 
(d) local information and communications technology committees.  

2. The roles and responsibilities of these bodies, as well as their relationships 
among each other and with the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology are described in the paragraphs below.  
 

  Information and communications technology management framework for the 
United Nations Secretariat 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

  Information and Communications Technology Executive Committee 
 

3. The Information and Communications Technology Executive Committee, the 
highest-level decision-making body on major information and communications 
technology matters, decides overall information and communications technology 
strategy and priorities. The committee is chaired by the Deputy Secretary-General 

Advisory 
Group 

Chief Information 
Technology Officer Client Services Unit 

Project Management 
Office 

Local 
information 
and 
communi-
cations 
technology 
committes 

Working Group on 
Knowledge Management 

Working Group on 
Resource Management 

Working Group on 
Information Management 

Deputy Secretary-General 

Executive Committee



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 38 
 

and comprises senior managers at the Under-Secretary-General level from 
substantive and support areas,a as well as the Chief Information Technology Officer 
as an ex officio member. The committee meets on a quarterly basis to review 
Information and Communications Technology strategy and programme performance 
and to determine the Information and Communications Technology investment 
portfolio as needed. The Chief Information Technology Officer, however, reports 
directly to the Deputy Secretary-General on operational Information and 
Communications Technology matters.  
 

  Information and Communications Technology Advisory Group 
 

4. In order to provide appropriate advice and inputs for information and 
communications technology investments, a Secretariat-wide Information and 
Communications Technology Advisory Group is established and made up of D-1/ 
D-2 level staff representing each department and office. The Advisory Group 
provides feedback to the Chief Information Technology Officer on information and 
communications technology programmes and services via the Client Services Unit 
of the Office of Information and Communications Technology. Members of the 
Advisory Group will also receive periodic briefings from the Office of Information 
and Communications Technology on major information and communications 
technology matters. The Information and Communications Technology Advisory 
Group may provide its views to the Information and Communications Technology 
Executive Committee and the information and communications technology working 
groups as needed. 
 

  Information and Communications Technology Programme working groups 
 

5. Information and Communications Technology Programme working groups 
guide the three strategic programmes in knowledge management, resource 
management and infrastructure management. The head of each corresponding 
functional area within the Office of Information and Communications Technology 
chairs each working group. Members represent senior technical experts within each 
functional area from across the Secretariat. All major strategic programme 
investments and projects, including major changes in scope and proposed spending 
for ongoing initiatives, are subject to review by the working groups. The groups 
provide portfolio and project recommendations to the Chief Information Technology 
Officer via the Project Management Office of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology. 
 

  Information and Communications Technology Programme Working Group on 
Knowledge Management  
 

6. The Information and Communications Technology Programme Working Group 
on Knowledge Management provides strategic direction, reviews proposed 
information and communications technology investments and monitors programme 
and project status to ensure retention of institutional knowledge and to support 

 
 

 a Department of Public Information, United Nations Office at Vienna/United Nations Office on 
Drugs and Crime, Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, Department of 
Management, Department of Field Support, Office of Legal Affairs, United Nations Office at 
Geneva, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Department for General Assembly and 
Conference Management, Department of Safety and Security, United Nations Office at Nairobi, 
Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific. 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

39 09-60895 
 

organizational innovation. Its decision-making scope includes the entirety of 
knowledge management activities in the Secretariat.  
 

  Information and Communications Technology Programme Working Group on 
Resource Management  
 

7. The Information and Communications Technology Programme Working Group 
on Resource Management provides strategic direction, reviews proposed 
information and communications technology investments and monitors programme 
and project status to ensure improvement in the Secretariat’s capabilities in 
managing human, financial and other resources. Its decision-making scope includes 
the entirety of resource management activities in the Secretariat.  
 

  Information and Communications Technology Programme Working Group on 
Infrastructure Management  
 

8. The Information and Communications Technology Programme Working Group 
on Infrastructure Management provides strategic direction, reviews proposed 
information and communications technology investments and monitors programme 
and project status to ensure improvement in the Secretariat’s information and 
communications technology infrastructure. Its decision-making scope includes the 
entirety of infrastructure management activities in the Secretariat. 
 

  Local information and communications technology committees 
 

9. Local information and communications technology committees should be 
established in each department and office to ensure that local information and 
communications technology priorities are aligned with the Secretariat-wide 
information and communications technology strategy. They should ensure 
appropriate usage of information and communications technology resources at the 
department and office level by reviewing and approving project ideas, proposals and 
major service requests prior to submission to the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology. The head of each local information and 
communications technology committee will participate in the Information and 
Communications Technology Advisory Group. The client services officer assigned 
to each department will also be able to provide input and will act as a liaison with 
the Office of Information and Communications Technology. 

 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 40 
 

Annex II 
 

  Benefits expected from the implementation of enterprise 
content management 
 
 

Qualitative benefits from the implementation of enterprise content management are 
expected in terms of increased organizational effectiveness in the Secretariat: 

 • Enhanced accountability and transparency 

 • Improved monitoring, control, auditing, tracking of information management 
activities in delivering substantive programmes 

 • More accurate and informed analysis, leading to better decision-making by 
substantive and administrative groups, enabling the United Nations to better 
achieve its primary goals 

 • A greener Secretariat with the implementation of paperless processes 

 • Improved knowledge-sharing among departments 

 • Better sharing of information and collaboration with non-governmental 
organizations and Member States 

 • Increased training capabilities 

 • Improved compliance with United Nations policies and standards (in the areas 
of information security, electronic signatures, document classification and 
metadata, and document retention and disposal policy) 

Quantitative benefits from the implementation of enterprise content management 
can be measured in terms of the following types of productivity gains and cost 
savings:  

 • 50 per cent reduction in searching, retrieving and filing 

 • 25 per cent reduction in time spent photocopying 

 • 75 per cent reduction in off-site storage and storage labour 

 • 20 per cent reduction in workflow inefficiencies 

 • 10 per cent reduction in on-site storage space 

 • 25 per cent reduction in shipping costs and supplies 

 • 25 per cent reduction in office machines and photocopying 

On the basis of an assumption that an average of 5 per cent of staff time at all levels 
is spent on searching for information, and that there is a user population of 10,000 
Secretariat staff, the implementation of enterprise content management will result in 
overall productivity gains equivalent to approximately 250 person-years.a  

__________________ 

 a  If only half of these were to result in the elimination of the equivalent number of posts, on the 
basis of a $120,000 per year salary (at the P-3 level), the dollar amount saved would be 
$15,000,000. 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

41 09-60895 
 

The industry benchmark on the implementation of enterprise content management 
shows the following:b  

 • Companies spend $20 in labour to file a document, $120 in labour to find a 
misfiled document, $220 in labour to reproduce a lost documentc 

 • 7.5 per cent of all documents get lost and 3 per cent of the remainder get 
misfiled 

 • Professionals spend 5 to 15 per cent of their time reading information, but 
from 20d to 50 per cente looking for it 

 • The average document is photocopied 19 times 

 • Users send and receive an average of 133 e-mail messages per dayf  

 • The cost of office space has increased by 19 per centg  

 • The replacement of 200 filing cabinets with digital storage generated a 
$300,000 savings in storage costsh 

__________________ 

 b  “10 Fast Facts About Document Management Value” 27 October 2008: http://aiim.typepad.com/ 
aiim_blog/2008/10/10-fast-facts-a.html. 

 c  John Mancini, AIIM, 2009, http://aiim.typepad.com/aiim_blog/2009/05/management-ecm-
excuse-3-weve-got-to-pick-our-battles-.html. 

 d  According to a January 2007 Accenture online survey conducted in large companies in the 
United States and the United Kingdom, “managers spend up to three hours a day searching for 
information, and more than 50 per cent of the information they obtain has no value to them”. 

 e  http://andrewonedegree.wordpress.com/?s=ECM+Savings. 
 f  Radicati Group. 
 g  Office Space Across the World 2008. 
 h  “Measuring ECM Success”, July 2009, at www.dpsmagazine.com/Content/ 

ContentCT.asp?P=573. 



 
 

A
/64/7/A

dd.9 
 

42 
09-60895

Annex III 
 

  Summary of resources approved 
 
 

  ECM/CRM/DRBC 
 

GA resolution Date Related reports 
Total resources 

approved by GA
Regular budget 

2008-2009
Support account 

2009/10 Extrabudgetary CMP Remarks 

ECM      

A/63/262 24/12/2008 A/62/510 Rev.1
A/63/487 

2 000 000 2 000 000 0 0 0 $2,000,000 approved from the regular 
budget to be met from within the existing 
appropriation for 2008-2009 

A/63/287 30/06/2009 A/63/767 6 645 200 0 6 645 200 0 0 $6,645,200 under information technology 

   136 400 136 400   $136,400 under general temporary 
assistance for 1 P-3 

 Total ECM   8 781 600 2 000 000 6 781 600 0 0  

CRM      

A/63/287 30/06/2009 A/63/767 4 029 500 0 4 029 500 0 0 $4,029,500 under information technology 

   331 400 331 400   $331,400 under general temporary 
assistance for 1 P-5 and 1 P-3 position 

 Total CRM   4 360 900 0 4 360 900 0 0  

DRBC      

A/63/262 24/12/2008 A/62/510 Rev.1 11 074 600 7 145 500 1 429 100 0 0 

  A/63/487 2 500 00   

$7,145,500 and $1,429,100 approved for 
the North Lawn primary data centre. 
$2,500,000 approved for provision of 
DRBC at Headquarters and offices away 
from Headquarters 

A/63/269 07/04/2009 A/63/743 7 128 740 0 2 031 860 0 5 096 880 A total of $7,128,740 approved for the 
secondary data centre 

  A/63/774   The regular budget share of $5,096,880 is 
to be funded from within the CMP budget 

 Total DRBC   18 203 340 9 645 500 3 460 960 0 5 096 880  
 

(Footnotes on following page.) 
 

 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

43 09-60895 
 

(Footnotes to table) 

______________ 

Notes: 
  ECM-CRM 
  The General Assembly approved $2,000,000 for ECM, under the regular budget to be met 

from within the existing appropriation for 2008-2009. 
  The support account figure for CRM and ECM projects represents resources for information 

technology approved by the General Assembly in the context of the 2009/10 support budget 
(63/767), namely $10,674,700, including, $4,029,500 for CRM and $6,645,200 for ECM. 

  Resources for general temporary assistance associated with CRM and ECM projects, funded 
from the support account, were approved in addition to information technology by the 
General Assembly in the context of the 2009/10 support budget (63/767): CRM 1 P-5 
$195,000 and 1 P-3 $136,400; ECM 1 P-3 $136,400. 

  A 5 per cent reduction in the resources proposed for information technology was approved 
by the General Assembly, to be utilized by the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology at its own discretion, taking into account the relative priorities of the different 
projects (63/841, para. 199). 

 

  DRBC 
  The Secretary-General was requested to meet the regular budget share for the North Lawn 

data centre ($7,145,500) and $2,500,000 for DRBC at Headquarters and offices away from 
Headquarters from within the existing appropriation for 2008-2009. The regular budget 
share for the secondary data centre ($5,096,880) is to be funded from within the CMP 
budget. The breakdown of the funding of the secondary data centre is shown in table 2 of 
document A/64/346/Add.1. 

 

Abbreviations: ECM, enterprise content management; CRM, customer relationship management; 
DRBC, disaster recovery and business continuity; CMP, capital master plan. 

 

 

 

 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 44 
 

Annex IV  
 

  Benefits expected from the implementation of customer 
relationship management  
 
 

1. The beneficiaries of a customer relationship management system include: 

 (a) Service recipients, who will be able to:  

 • Request any type of service, through a variety of channels including 
telephone, e-mail, fax or web 

 • Monitor the status of all their requests 

 (b) Service providers, who will be able to: 

 • Manage service requests through the entire life cycle 

 • Manage resources (workforce) efficiently in servicing requests 

 • Manage the relationship with customers much better by proactively 
monitoring their own performance against previously established 
service-level agreements for service delivery 

 (c) Management, who will be able to: 

 • Improve oversight, through the use of data that is automatically captured 
as service requests are processed 

 • Improve efficiency and effectiveness, by adjusting the deployment of 
resources to actual requirements 

2. Customer relationship management benefits calculations are typically based on 
the number and processing of service requests, or tickets, distinguishing between the 
time saved by service recipients and service providers.  

3. The tables below outline the benefits calculation based on the number of 
service tickets for the initial implementers of customer relationship management 
(information and communications technology and facilities service desks) at United 
Nations Headquarters and offices away from Headquarters and in all peacekeeping 
missions. Savings in time are monetized on the basis of an annual average salary of 
$90,000 for service requesters and $75,000 for service providers. 
 

  Savings for service recipients 
 

  Yearly savings (rounded) 

 
Low range 
estimate 

High range 
estimate 

Calculation base 
Low range High range

Time saved by entering ticket 
online  

3 min 6 min  Ticket volume  $1 109 000 $2 219 000

Time saved by obtaining status 
updates online, 24/7 

1 min 5 min  Ticket volume $370 000 $1 849 000

Time saved due to elimination of 
tickets by enabling global alerts 
and notifications about service 
interruptions/outages  

10 min/year 15 min/year Service recipients 
volume  

$644 000 $965 000



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

45 09-60895 
 

  Yearly savings (rounded) 

 
Low range 
estimate 

High range 
estimate 

Calculation base 
Low range High range

Time saved by replacing manual 
forms with electronic forms and 
workflows in requests for service 

6 min 15 min Ticket volume  $1 109 000 $2 773 000

Time saved by eliminating tickets 
through self-resolution, due to the 
availability of frequently asked 
questions and knowledge base  

20% of 
issues 
eliminated 

30% of issues 
eliminated 

Average time for 
ticket creation,  
and ticket volume  

$370 000 $555 000

 Total savings for service recipients  $3 602 000 $8 360 000
 
 

  Savings for service providers  
 

  Yearly savings (rounded) 

 
Low range 
estimate 

High range 
estimate Calculation base Low range High range

Reduced number of tickets by 
introducing self-service and 
knowledge base (self-resolution) 

20% 
reduction 

30% reduction Average time for 
ticket creation,  
and ticket volume  

$559 000 $839 000

Time saved by eliminating calls/ 
e-mails on status update or follow-
up from service recipients  

4 min  7 min Ticket volume  $994 000 $1 739 000

Time saved due to automation of 
forms and online approvals by 
automatic ticket creation 

2 min  4 min Ticket volume  $621 000 $1 242 000

 Total savings for service providers  $2 174 000 $3 820 000
 
 

4. Annual savings of between $5,776,000 and $12,180,000 are expected three 
months after customer relationship management is fully deployed for information 
and communications technology and facilities services at Headquarters and offices 
away from Headquarters and for information and communications technology in all 
peacekeeping missions. Further savings would accrue if other service desks were to 
be migrated to the common customer relationship management platform. 

5. On the basis of the calculations in the tables above, the savings from the initial 
deployment of customer relationship management to information and 
communications technology service desks in the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology and the Department of Field Support at United 
Nations Headquarters, the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, the United 
Nations Mission in Liberia, the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, the 
United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti and the facilities service desk at 
Headquarters are expected to range between $1,784,000 and $3,703,000 per year. If 
customer relationship management is deployed to information and communications 
technology service desks in five offices away from Headquarters, the yearly savings 
would increase to between $3,973,000 and $8,398,000 per year. The estimated 
savings would be between $4,102,000 and $9,226,000 if customer relationship 
management is implemented in information and communications technology service 
desks in all seven offices away from Headquarters in 2012-2013. 



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 46 
 

Annex V  
 

  Major functional areas of the ERP system and 
associated functions  
 
 

In the table below, where ERP is listed, it is the intention at this stage for ERP to 
provide all the elements mentioned. However this can only be confirmed after the 
design phase and the scope would also be contingent on the necessary resources 
being provided. 
 
 

Functional 
area Function To be provided through: 

CSS Travel management: planning, requesting, amendments, visas, 
travel entitlement and claims 

ERP 

CSS  Services to the public and staff: this function is an income-
generating process. A portion of the income generated is returned 
to the Member States. Commercial activities include: 

• Postal services: create and market stamps and other philatelic 
collectables 

• Publications: sales and distribution of United Nations reports 
and other published materials 

• Gift centre and newsstand: revenue generated by the sale of 
gifts, souvenirs, newspapers, magazines and sundries at the 
United Nations premises 

• Catering services: revenue generated by the provision of food 
services to United Nations staff, delegates and visitors 

• Guided tours: organized for visitors to visit the United Nations 
building and learn about the United Nations mission and 
activities 

• Others that apply to specific duty stations:  

  commissary, recreation centre and fuel station (UNON), 
training courses for the general public (ECLAC) 

• Garage management: revenue generated by the use of United 
Nations parking places by staff members, missions and 
delegates 

ERP 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

47 09-60895 
 

Functional 
area Function To be provided through: 

CSS  Real estate management  

• Building maintenance: preventive and corrective maintenance 

• Construction management: architectural and engineering projects 

• Office space management: requests for office space, movement of 
office furniture and relocation of people 

• Lease agreements 

• Billing of tenants 

ERP and CRM 

CSS  Facilities management: work order management including 
information and communications technology services 

ERP and CRM 

CSS  Conference and events management:  

Conference/event management services are a strategic customer-
centric business process that provides meeting and 
documentation services to all the meetings/events held at 
Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters and field 
missions. It focuses on three main planning and delivery 
services: conference/event planning and coordination services, 
interpretation and meeting services, and documentation planning 
and processing services 

ERP and eMeets 

CSS  Programme and project management: 

This function will cover programmes and projects managed and 
administered by the United Nations Secretariat regardless of 
budget (regular budget, extrabudgetary, trust funds, general trust 
funds, income) 

ERP 

CSS  Archives and records management: 

Archives and records management provides a number of records-
centric services for the United Nations Secretariat, the General 
Assembly and the general public. These services include: 

• Consultation and guidance on records management for United 
Nations offices 

• Records storage and retrieval for the General Assembly, 
Member States, Secretariat offices, and other United Nations 
organs, as well as Research services for the general public 

ERP and ECM 

HR Recruitment/staffing Inspira  
(talent management)



A/64/7/Add.9  
 

09-60895 48 
 

Functional 
area Function To be provided through: 

HR Performance management Inspira  
(talent management)

HR Learning management Inspira  
(talent management)

HR Personnel administration (on-boarding, contract management, 
movement of staff, separation, entitlements and insurance) 

ERP and Inspira 

HR Time management ERP 

HR Position management (the detailed design is in progress and 
discussions are continuing with the Inspira team) 

The initial ERP design for position management provides for the 
following: 

• Creation/maintenance of positions and integration for budget 
preparation (ERP) 

• Selection of an applicant/staff (Inspira)  

• On-boarding against the position, maintenance of the relation 
between staff and position and integration with budget 
execution (ERP) 

• Staffing table maintenance and reporting (ERP) 

ERP and Inspira 

HR Payroll ERP 

SCPL Plan and manage: includes processes related to demand 
planning and forecasting, supply network planning and force 
planning 

ERP 

SCPL Source to acquire: includes processes related to strategic 
sourcing, supplier collaboration, requisition to purchase order, 
low-value acquisitions and contract management 

ERP 

SCPL Receive to distribute: includes processes related to inbound and 
outbound processing of goods, planning and dispatching goods 
and services, warehouse and inventory management, force 
deployment and interfaces with specialist logistics (e.g. fuel 
management, medical services, rations management and air 
transport management) 

• Peacekeeping troop contingent-owned equipment verification 
(ERP and CRM) 

• Fuel management (ERP) 

• Rations management (ERP) 

• Air transport management (ERP) 

ERP and CRM 



 A/64/7/Add.9
 

49 09-60895 
 

Functional 
area Function To be provided through: 

SCPL Employ to dispose: includes processes related to kit assembly 
and execution, equipment assignment, maintenance through to 
decommission and disposal, ensuring all environment health and 
safety requirements are adhered to 

ERP 

FIN Strategic enterprise planning: strategy management, 
programme planning, results-based budgeting/results-based 
management 

ERP 

FIN Budgeting: project and programme budgeting for all stages of 
the programme execution cycle 

ERP 

FIN Budget execution: deployment, redeployment and monitoring of 
funds and performance reporting 

ERP 

FIN Trust fund and project management: resource mobilization, 
project pipeline funding, contributions management, project 
financial management, donor reporting 

ERP and CRM 

FIN Accounts payable: end-to-end payment cycle, including 
verification, scheduling and integration with treasury; this area 
also covers inter-agency transactions 

ERP 

FIN Accounts receivable: end-to-end receivables cycle, including 
assessments, billing, credit management and recoveries; this area 
also covers inter-agency transactions 

ERP 

FIN Treasury: cash management, cash-flow management, bank 
management and investment management  

ERP 

FIN Asset management: end-to-end asset financial cycle, including 
valuation, depreciation, disposal and special assets, such as 
leases and donations and contingent-owned equipment 

ERP 

FIN General ledger accounting and consolidations: accounting 
entries, cost recoveries and allocations, segment reporting and 
consolidations 

ERP 

 

Abbreviations: CSS, central supply services; HR, human resources; SPCL, supply chain/procurement/logistics; 
FIN, finance and budget; ERP, enterprise resource planning; UNON, United Nations Office at Nairobi; 
ECLAC, Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean; CRM, customer relationship 
management. 

 

 



 
 

A
/64/7/A

dd.9 
 

50 
09-60895

Annex VI 
 

  Indicative summary of net resource requirements for enterprise resource 
planning by object of expenditure under each source of funds  

 
 

(Thousands of United States dollars) 
 

 Regular budget Peacekeeping support account Extrabudgetary 

 
2008- 

2009 
2010-

2011

To end of 
project 

2013 Subtotal

1 July 2008 
to 30 June 

2009

1 July 2009 to 
31 December 

2011
2012 to end 

of project Subtotal
2008-

2009
2010-

2011

To end of 
project 

2013 Subtotal Total

Posts — 3 136.0 4 246.8 7 382.8 — 14 786.0 17 553.5 32 339.5 — 4 807.9 6 511.8 11 319.7 51 042.0

Other staff costs 2 272.2 2 682.1 2 916.0 7 870.3 3 134.9 12 645.9 12 052.7 27 833.6 3 486.2 4 112.0 4 471.2 12 069.3 47 773.2

Travel of staff 273.7 459.6 2 409.7 3 710.8 377.6 4 844.2 9 960.1 15 181.9 419.9 1 575.2 3 694.9 5 690.0 24 582.7

Consultants and 
experts — 1 027.4 499.7 959.3 — 2 167.0 2 065.4 4 232.4 — 704.6 766.2 1 470.8 6 662.4

Contractual 
services 1 998.2 12 292.6 4 737.8 19 028.7 2 756.8 57 959.6 19 583.1 80 299.4 3 065.8 18 846.4 7 264.7 29 176.8 128 505.0

General operating 
expenses 328.3 1 604.0 1 152.2 3 084.5 453.0 7 562.6 4 762.5 12 778.1 503.7 2 459.1 1 766.7 4 729.5 20 592.1

Supplies and 
materials 6.0 20.1 21.9 48.0 8.3 95.0 90.5 193.8 9.2 30.9 33.6 73.7 315.5

Furniture and 
equipment 231.5 2 970.4 2 082.5 5 284.4 319.4 14 005.5 8 607.5 22 932.5 355.2 4 554.1 3 193.1 8 102.4 36 319.3

 Total 5 110.0 24 192.2 18 066.6 47 368.8 7 050.0 114 065.9a 74 675.3 195 791.2 7 840.0 37 090.1 27 702.1 72 632.2 315 792.3
 

 a The amount of $28,516,500 to be funded for the period from 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010 and $85,549,400 to be funded for the period from 1 July 2010 to 
December 2011. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


	Conference and events management:  
	Programme and project management: 
	Archives and records management: 

