
 United Nations  A/63/774

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
18 March 2009 
 
Original: English 

 

09-27300 (E)    190309     
*0927300* 

Sixty-third session 
Agenda items 118 and 132 
 

Programme budget for the biennium 2008-2009 
 

Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing 
of the United Nations peacekeeping operations 

 
 
 

  Information and communications technology security, 
disaster recovery and business continuity for the 
United Nations: arrangements for the secondary data centre 
at Headquarters 
 
 

  Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions 
 
 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has 
considered the report of the Secretary-General on arrangements for a secondary data 
centre at Headquarters (A/63/743). During its consideration of the report, the 
Committee met with representatives of the Secretary-General, who provided 
additional information and clarification. The Committee also visited the current 
primary and secondary data centres in the Secretariat and DC2 Buildings. 

2. The report of the Secretary-General was issued pursuant to General Assembly 
resolution 63/262, by which the Assembly requested the Secretary-General to report 
to it at the first part of its resumed sixty-third session on the risk mitigation 
measures to be taken during the relocation of the primary data centre to the North 
Lawn (sect. IV, para. 11), as well as to present a new proposal for a secondary data 
centre, including on cost-sharing arrangements (sect. IV, para. 19).  

3. According to the current schedule, the new North Lawn data centre will be 
ready for occupancy in November 2009, and the data centre in the Secretariat 
building must be vacated by March 2010 in order to avoid delays in the 
implementation of the capital master plan project. The Secretary-General proposes 
to set up the initial information and communications technology (ICT) infrastructure 
and to relocate systems from the Secretariat Building to the North Lawn data centre 



A/63/774  
 

09-27300 2 
 

in phases during the four-month period from 1 November 2009 to 28 February 2010 
(see A/63/743, paras. 20 and 21).  

4. The Secretary-General indicated that, in order to meet this timetable, a new 
secondary data centre must be fully operational by the end of October 2009. He 
further indicated that the timetable did not allow for the construction of a data 
centre, as originally planned, and that, consequently, a commercial data centre 
facility must be identified and leased by 1 July 2009 in order to ensure the 
availability of a fully functional centre, set up with the necessary initial ICT 
infrastructure, by the end of October 2009. He also stated that this presented a very 
challenging timetable for the completion of all the associated procurement and 
negotiation processes, significantly increasing the risk that the deadline for the 
commissioning of the new secondary data centre would not be able to be met 
(see A/63/743, paras. 21 and 22).  

5. In view of these constraints, the Secretary-General proposes to establish a 
temporary secondary data centre for the two-and-a-half-year period from 1 July 
2009 to 31 December 2011 and to revert to the question of the permanent secondary 
data centre during the biennium 2012-2013. The key elements of the proposal for a 
temporary secondary data centre include: 

 (a) Leasing of a commercial “infrastructure-ready” data centre facility at a 
total estimated cost of some $11 million, comprising annual rent of $4.3 million and 
an initial set-up charge of $350,000;  

 (b) Establishment of a service delivery agreement with the International 
Computing Centre (ICC) to provide the necessary equipment and services for 
running the new secondary data centre at a total cost of $12.7 million, comprising 
one-time costs of $994,700 and $1 million for commissioning equipment and 
migrating applications, respectively, as well as annual charges of $5.4 million for 
operating the data centre; 

 (c) Decommissioning of the existing secondary data centre in the DC2 
Building as from July 2010, with an annual reduction of $627,800 in the current 
service delivery agreement with ICC; 

 (d) Sharing of the costs of the secondary data centre between the regular 
budget (80 per cent) and peacekeeping budgets (20 per cent) on the basis of the 
proportion of capacity of the secondary data centre used for peacekeeping and 
non-peacekeeping operations.  

A breakdown of costs by object of expenditure, funding source and financial period 
is provided in table 2 of the report of the Secretary-General. 

6. The Secretary-General is requesting urgent action on the proposal because, as 
indicated in paragraph 11 of the report, if the primary data centre in the Secretariat 
Building is not vacated as planned by the end of March 2010, the implementation of 
the capital master plan project will be delayed, resulting in a cost increase currently 
estimated at about $14 million per month owing to several costs associated with 
swing space leases and the resumption of construction activity after an interruption. 
 
 



 A/63/774
 

3 09-27300 
 

 II. Comments and observations 
 
 

7. The Committee considers that the report does not provide a complete analysis 
of the costs that are likely to be incurred over the lifespan of the project. In this 
connection, the Committee would have found it useful if estimates of comparative 
costs had been provided for: (a) leasing versus acquisition of the ICT equipment; 
(b) the provision of services in house versus a service delivery agreement with ICC; 
and (c) temporary leasing of premises versus construction of a permanent secondary 
data centre. Upon enquiry, the Committee was informed that, were the ICT 
equipment to be acquired rather than leased, the total cost for data centre equipment 
and services would amount to $12.7 million, comprising $7.1 million for acquisition 
of the equipment, $1.6 million for maintenance of the equipment and $4 million for 
ICC services. Under this option, the outlay in 2009 due to the initial capital costs for 
equipment would be $12.6 million, compared with $7.2 million in the Secretary-
General’s proposal. The Committee was further informed that, even under the 
current proposal, ICC would have the option of buying the ICT equipment using 
United Nations systems contracts, thereby ensuring that the United Nations did not 
incur a higher cost under the proposed arrangement. The Committee recommends 
that a final decision on whether to lease or purchase be based on an analysis of 
which option would result in the least cost to the Organization, taking into 
account the expected lifespan of the relevant ICT equipment.  

8. In addition, the Committee notes that the proposed solution involves an initial 
relocation from the DC2 site to the temporary data centre for two and a half years 
followed by a second move from the temporary to the permanent secondary site. It 
is evident from the Secretary-General’s proposal that such relocations are costly: 
they involve complex, high-risk processes that require considerable preparation and 
mobilize large numbers of specialized staff over extended periods, during which 
such staff would not be able to contribute to other strategic projects such as the 
enterprise resource planning system. The Committee emphasizes the importance 
of the conduct of a full analysis of costs and the provision of complete costing 
information to facilitate its consideration of and decision-making on such 
proposals, particularly in the light of the potential for duplication and the 
resource implications. 

9. In its report on ICT (A/63/487 and Corr.1 and 2, para. 83), the Committee 
requested that the Secretary-General provide information on the costs already 
incurred in connection with the Long Island City site. Upon enquiry, the Committee 
was informed that the costs incurred thus far for investigating the different options 
for the secondary data centre totalled $178,000, covering expenditures arising from 
the “due diligence” evaluation of the various sites, as well as the design of and 
construction cost estimates for the data centre in the United Nations Federal Credit 
Union (UNFCU) building in Long Island City. Of that amount, $20,000 was funded 
from resources appropriated under section 36, Office of Information and 
Communications Technology, of the programme budget for the biennium 2008-2009 
and $158,000 from the capital master plan under the arrangements set out in the 
letter from the Secretary-General to the President of the General Assembly 
(A/C.5/62/29). 

10. The Secretary-General does not provide assurances that the deadline for the 
commissioning of the new secondary data centre can indeed be met (see para. 4 
above and A/63/743, para. 22). The Committee points out that the need for ensuring 



A/63/774  
 

09-27300 4 
 

full capability for disaster recovery and business continuity at United Nations 
Headquarters in the context of the capital master plan project has been known for 
some time. The Secretary-General submitted an initial proposal in October 2007 for 
the construction of a data centre at the UNFCU building in Long Island City to 
replace the centre in DC2, including the possibility of establishing a joint operation 
and sharing costs with other United Nations entities located in New York 
(A/62/477). However, in September 2008, the Secretariat determined that the Long 
Island City site was not viable after it had entered into a long-term lease for the 
proposed data centre (A/63/743, paras. 1-5). Subsequently, the Secretariat pursued a 
search for alternative sites and determined, in January 2009, that it would not be 
possible to build a data centre in time for the relocation of the primary data centre. 
The Secretariat then decided to opt for leasing commercial, “infrastructure-ready” 
data centre facilities where it could immediately install and operate its own ICT 
equipment. 

11. In the view of the Committee, this sequence of events demonstrates 
continued deficiencies in the planning and management of the project, which 
appear to be based on an improvised reaction to situations as they arise rather 
than being the result of anticipation of potential issues, preparation for a 
variety of contingencies and consideration of strategic, long-term requirements. 
Given the significant impact of any delay in the relocation of the primary data 
centre on the overall cost of the capital master plan, as well as the complexity of 
the project, which requires long lead times for procurement and commercial 
telecommunications links, the Committee believes that the Secretariat should 
have proactively considered a variety of different, scalable options from the 
outset, in September 2008, when the Long Island City option was abandoned, in 
order to ensure sufficient time to fully develop cost-effective alternative 
proposals as well as to implement technically sound and robust solutions. 
Furthermore, the Committee believes that some of the risks associated with the 
current DC2 facility (see para. 15 below) could have been mitigated earlier 
through managerial due diligence and foresight. 

12. In this connection, the Committee is not convinced by the Secretariat’s 
argument that the delays are due partially to the fact that it had to re-evaluate 
its strategy relating to the secondary data centre for Headquarters in the light 
of the principles set out by the General Assembly for managing disaster 
recovery and business continuity, such as the consolidation of systems in central 
data centres and the use of enterprise data centres rather than local data 
centres (see A/63/743, paras. 16-19). In the Committee’s view, the requests of 
the Assembly endorse and build upon the Secretary-General’s own long-term 
proposals for a more unified approach to global operations and the 
implementation of enterprise systems to be hosted globally at the United 
Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy, as set out in documents A/62/477 and 
A/62/510/Rev.1, rather than establishing new parameters for the secondary 
data centre that have an impact on the strategy. 

13. Upon enquiry, the Committee was informed that a definitive classification of 
critical and non-critical systems did not yet exist. Such a classification would allow 
for clear prioritization of the systems to be backed up in the secondary centre. At 
present, business continuity capability is provided for the systems generally 
acknowledged to be important, such as e-mail, BlackBerry, the Integrated 
Management Information System (IMIS), treasury and budget systems, the Official 



 A/63/774
 

5 09-27300 
 

Document System, the Secretary-General’s system for managing his contacts and 
schedule, the iSeek Intranet site and the United Nations website (see also para. 14 
and annex below). The Committee recalls that in General Assembly resolution 
63/262, the Assembly requested the Secretary-General to prioritize systems in order 
to minimize the cost of disaster recovery and business continuity (sect. IV, para. 3). 
The Committee was informed that the Business Continuity Management Unit of the 
Office of Central Support Services was responsible for undertaking the 
classification effort and for reporting on the matter to the Assembly in the context of 
the Secretary-General’s proposals for a unified disaster recovery and business 
continuity plan, as requested in resolution 63/262 (sect. IV, para. 12). The 
Committee notes with regret the absence of such a classification, which, in its 
view, constitutes a deficiency in the Secretary-General’s proposal. The 
Committee considers that such a classification would be an essential basis for 
the establishment of a timeline for the migration of systems and would also 
allow streamlining and optimization of the migration process. The Committee 
urges the Secretariat to make every effort to conclude this process expeditiously 
and to provide to the Assembly at the time of its consideration of this question, 
an inventory of systems classified according to their degree of criticality. 

14. In this connection, the Committee considers that the terminology used to 
qualify systems, which are referred to critical, major, important or non-critical, 
merits clarification. Upon enquiry, the Committee was provided with additional 
information on the systems that are backed up or running in the DC2 data centre, 
including their criticality, which is provided in the annex below. The Committee 
notes that: (a) systems such as Windows, antivirus programs and firewalls are 
considered critical, as they affect the continued availability of all other ICT systems 
running in the data centres; (b) systems such as IMIS, e-mail and BlackBerry are 
considered to be important; and (c) non-critical systems include departmental 
applications such as the e-commerce system for the United Nations Postal 
Administration (Department of Management) and the Networked Interactive 
Content Access System, used for managing digital content, including photographs 
and video (Department for Public Information). The Committee was informed that, 
due to capacity limitations in the primary data centre in the Secretariat Building, 
these non-critical departmental applications are hosted in DC2 only. 

15. According to the Secretariat, during the move of the primary site to the North 
Lawn, demands on DC2 would increase for data backup and running systems. 
During the move, the DC2 data centre will acquire the role of a primary data centre 
for the systems that are being relocated. In the view of the Secretariat, this would 
magnify the risk of failures due to power disruption (DC2 lacks emergency power) 
or other circumstances, leading to the possible disruption of critical communications 
systems (e.g. e-mail, BlackBerry) as well as key administrative systems (e.g. IMIS) 
(see A/63/743, paras. 8 and 9). The Secretariat reiterated to the Committee that 
neither the power supply nor the cooling systems in DC2 could be upgraded.  
 
 

 III. Recommendations 
 
 

16. The Committee considers that the Organization has been put in a difficult 
position in which it is forced to make a strategic decision on an urgent basis in 
respect of a proposal for a substantial investment, which the Committee 
considers to be lacking in analysis, information and overall information on 



A/63/774  
 

09-27300 6 
 

financial implications. More importantly, the Committee is not convinced that 
the proposal put forward is the most cost-effective one possible or the most 
workable. The Secretary-General himself acknowledges the challenging 
timetable for the project and the significant risk that the deadline for the 
commissioning of the data centre will not be able to be met. In this connection, 
the Committee points out that the General Assembly, in its resolution 63/262, 
requested the Secretary-General to report on the risk mitigation measures to be 
taken during the relocation of the primary data centre to the North Lawn 
(sect. IV, para. 11). The Secretary-General’s proposal does not appear to 
provide the necessary assurance that its implementation would sufficiently 
mitigate those risks.  

17. The Committee has outlined in the present report its serious concerns in 
respect of the Secretary-General’s proposals. However, the Committee 
recognizes that the secure relocation of the primary data centre from the 
Secretariat Building to the North Lawn facility is an essential component of the 
capital master plan and that a reliable secondary data centre is an important 
factor (see also A/63/736, para. 49). In addition, disruptions in the provision of 
some ICT services would have an adverse impact on the operations of the entire 
Organization.  

18. Under the circumstances and given the time constraints, the Committee 
finds itself in a position where it has no prudent alternative but to recommend 
approval of the Secretary-General’s proposal to establish the new secondary 
data centre. Accordingly, the Committee recommends that the General 
Assembly take note of the total estimate of $25,737,500 for the project, as well 
as the Secretariat’s strategy of entering into a service delivery agreement with 
the International Computing Centre. The Committee also recommends that the 
Assembly approve additional resource requirements of: 

 (a) $3,774,100 under section 36, Office of Information and 
Communications Technology, and $1,995,200 under section 28D, Office of 
Central Support Services, under the programme budget for the biennium 2008-
2009; 

 (b) $2,384,300, to be included in the proposed budget of the support 
account for the peacekeeping operations for the period from 1 July 2009 to 
30 June 2010. 

19. The Committee does not object to the cost-sharing arrangement for the 
new data centre proposed by the Secretary-General. However, it recommends 
that the General Assembly request the Secretary-General to re-examine the 
approach for dividing costs between the regular and peacekeeping budgets. 
Under the current approach, the cost-sharing ratio of peacekeeping to 
non-peacekeeping activities is established on a case-by-case basis, taking into 
account the proportion of peacekeeping and non-peacekeeping operations at 
each site. In the future, as Brindisi becomes an Organization-wide hub 
centralizing enterprise applications used across the United Nations, it may be 
timely to consider shifting towards the application of a common cost-sharing 
arrangement between peacekeeping and non-peacekeeping operations across 
the Organization. 



 A/63/774
 

7 09-27300 
 

20. The Committee further recommends that the Secretary-General be 
requested to review the migration strategy with a view to seeking efficiencies, 
prioritizing among the critical and non-critical applications to be migrated and 
optimizing the utilization of existing facilities, and to ensure that the scope of 
the project is as lean as possible, consistent with the need to preserve the 
integrity of the Organization’s data. 

21. The Committee believes that the continuing deficiencies in the planning 
and management of this project must be remedied. It stresses that the 
successful implementation of the project will require effective leadership and 
management, as well as clearly defined roles and responsibilities, rigorous 
monitoring of progress against performance targets, procedures to ensure that 
corrective action is taken quickly should problems emerge and mechanisms to 
hold individuals accountable for their areas of responsibility. The Secretary-
General should also be requested to ensure that robust, technically sound 
solutions are put into place. In this connection, the Committee recommends 
that the Secretary-General be requested to utilize the services of an 
independent expert possessing a high degree of technical experience in the field 
of migration and relocation of data centres to validate the project 
implementation plan and provide advice to the implementation team, as 
required, without disrupting the project schedule, to be funded from within 
existing resources. The Committee also requests that the necessary measures be 
taken to ensure the confidentiality of the Organization’s data during the 
relocation of the primary data centre from the Secretariat Building to the 
North Lawn facility. 



A/63/774  
 

09-27300 8 
 

Annex 
 

  Systems currently running in the DC2 data centre, including 
their criticality 
 
 

1. Several systems operated by the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology are considered critical, as they affect the continued availability of all 
other information and communications technology systems running in the data 
centre. Therefore, it has established such systems, listed below, in both the primary 
data centre in the Secretariat Building and a backup in the DC2 secondary data 
centre, with capacity for the secondary data centre to take over automatically if 
there is a failure in the primary data centre: 

 • Windows Active Deployment System (ADS) (for workstation login) 

 • Symantec antivirus (for virus protection) 

 • Firewalls (for security of United Nations information assets from external 
threats) 

 • Local area network and Internet access (for all computing resources) 

 • Shared printing (for accessing shared printers) 

2. The following important systems are currently backed up in the DC2 
secondary data centre onto “storage systems” that facilitate easy retrieval and ensure 
that no data are lost:  

 • Integrated Management Information System 

 • Galaxy 

 • Treasury systems (Operations Processing Integrated Control System — 
investment management, SWIFT, check printing) 

 • Procurement system (Reality/Procureplus) 

 • ePAS (performance appraisal system) 

 • Budget information system 

 • iSeek (Intranet) 

 • Parts of the United Nations website (www.un.org) 

 • Webmail — for the Secretariat and permanent missions 

 • Official Document System 

 • E-mail 

 • Some Lotus Notes applications  

 • BlackBerry 

 • Mobile Office (for pandemic business continuity) 

 • Secretary-General’s system for managing his contacts and schedule 

 • Executive Office of the Secretary-General “Corlog” for tracking/ 
correspondence 



 A/63/774
 

9 09-27300 
 

 • Security video (from security cameras) 

 • SQL databases (nearly 300 of them for various departments) 

 • Some finance and budget applications for the Department of Peacekeeping 
Operations 

 • Some applications for the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs 
and the Department of Economic and Social Affairs 

3. Owing to capacity limitations in the primary data centre, some non-critical 
departmental systems, such as the e-commerce system for the United Nations Postal 
Administration and the Networked Interactive Content Access System, a system for 
managing digital content (pictures, videos, etc.), are running only in the DC2 data 
centre. 

 


