
United Nations A/RES/63/269

General Assembly Distr.: General7 May 2009

Sixty-third session
Agenda item 118

08-48693

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly

[on the report of the Fifth Committee (A/63/648/Add.5)]

63/269. Information and communications technology, 
disaster recovery and business continuity 
for the United Nations: arrangements 
for the secondary data centre at Headquarters

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 63/262 of 24 December 2008,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General entitled “Information 
and communications technology, disaster recovery and business continuity for the 
United Nations: arrangements for the secondary data centre at Headquarters”1 and 
the related report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions,2

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;1

2. Reaffirms the need for a global operational framework to enable the 
United Nations to respond effectively to emergency situations that may impair 
operations of critical elements of its information and communications technology 
infrastructure and facilities;

3. Encourages the Secretary-General to take a unified approach to disaster 
recovery and business continuity, utilizing all available infrastructure, in order to 
achieve economies of scale and cost efficiencies;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the United Nations uses 
enterprise data centres rather than local data centres as far as possible;

5. Notes with concern the continued deficiencies in the planning and 
management of the project;

6. Regrets that the proposal of the Secretary-General did not provide the 
necessary assurances that its implementation would sufficiently mitigate risks, 
including risks related to the physical security of data, during the relocation of the 
primary data centre to the North Lawn at Headquarters;

_______________
1 A/63/743.
2 A/63/774.



A/RES/63/269

2

7. Requests the Secretary-General, when utilizing the services of the 
International Computing Centre, to ensure compliance with all regulations and rules 
regarding procurement, in order to guarantee the cost-effectiveness of the services 
provided by the Centre;

8. Endorses the conclusions and recommendations contained in the report 
of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,2 subject to 
the provisions of the present resolution;

9. Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General, expressed in section IV, 
paragraph 7, of its resolution 63/262, to ensure that the leased space is fully utilized 
if it is not possible to terminate the lease;

10. Notes with concern that the delays caused by the lack of reliable disaster  
recovery and business continuity services for Headquarters may lead to further cost 
escalation, including in respect of the capital master plan, and risk to data;

11. Decides that any further proposal for risk mitigation measures to protect 
data and the information and communications systems of the Secretariat during the 
construction work of the capital master plan, if necessary, shall be reported in the 
context of the annual progress report on the capital master plan;

12. Requests the Secretary-General to absorb 5,096,880 United States dollars 
within the approved budget of the capital master plan, and decides that 2,031,860 
dollars shall be financed from the resources to be approved for the support account 
for peacekeeping operations for the period from 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010 in 
order to pursue the most reliable and cost-effective risk mitigation measures during 
the migration of the primary data centre to the North Lawn;

13. Also requests the Secretary-General to carry out a classification of 
critical/non-critical systems of the Secretariat and to provide to the General 
Assembly an inventory of systems classified according to their degree of criticality 
at the time of its consideration of the proposal for a permanent secondary data 
centre;

14. Further requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the level of 
protection proposed has been subject to a thorough cost-benefit analysis;

15. Recalls paragraph 12 of section IV of resolution 63/262, and requests the 
Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly no later than at the main part 
of its sixty-fifth session a unified disaster recovery and business continuity plan, 
including a permanent solution for Headquarters.

79th plenary meeting
7 April 2009


