
 United Nations  A/62/793

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
9 April 2008 
 
Original: English 

 

08-30015 (E)    300408     
*0830015* 

Sixty-second session 
Agenda items 128 and 140 
 

Programme budget for the biennium 2008-2009 
 

Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing  
of the United Nations peacekeeping operations 

 
 
 

  Investing in information and communications technology: 
information and communications strategy for the 
United Nations Secretariat 
 
 

  Report of the Secretary-General 
 
 
 

 Summary 
 The present report, submitted in accordance with paragraph 3 of section II of 
General Assembly resolution 60/283, provides the information and communications 
technology (ICT) strategy for the United Nations Secretariat. The strategy serves as 
the Organization-wide agreement on the future direction of ICT. The report builds 
upon the significant progress made since the launching of the ICT strategy in 2002, 
and seeks to extend this achievement in order to meet the strategic ICT needs of the 
Secretariat over the next three to five years. 

 Based upon a collaborative planning process, which included interviews with 
the Organization’s executive leadership and surveys directed at United Nations 
personnel and permanent missions, the strategic ICT needs of the Secretariat have 
been identified and summarized into four broad categories of institutional driver: 
knowledge-sharing and collaboration; improvement of and support for internal 
Secretariat operations; communications and infrastructure; and overall ICT 
management. These institutional drivers, together with technological drivers 
comprising emerging technology trends, provide the basis for the overall vision of a 
strong ICT for a better United Nations.  

 The strategy for realizing the ICT vision spans five cross-cutting priority areas: 
ICT management structure; strategic programme delivery; service and performance 
management; global architecture and standards; and financial control and reporting. 
Changes will be made in these areas to establish a global, transparent and high-
performing ICT environment. In addition, three strategic programmes of high 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 2 
 

Organization-wide value, which correspond to the identified institutional drivers, are 
proposed to achieve the vision: (a) knowledge management; (b) resource 
management; and (c) infrastructure management. Implementation plans for each 
strategic programme are presented in the report.  

 A management framework which supports the effective implementation of the 
ICT strategy and programmes is also presented in the report. Core elements of the 
management structure include management oversight committees, advisory bodies, 
the Chief Information Technology Officer, the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology and other ICT units of the Secretariat. The key 
functions and responsibilities of each component and the relationships among them 
are outlined, along with an organizational structure of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology and the reporting relationships between that Office and 
other ICT units throughout the world. The overall plan and proposed timeline for 
implementing the management framework are also submitted for consideration.  

 Finally, organizational benefits expected upon the implementation of the 
strategy are presented, along with the key success factors required to ensure the 
successful realization of the ICT vision. 

 

 



 A/62/793
 

3 08-30015 
 

Contents 
 Paragraphs Page

I. Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1–4 4

II. Information and communications technology strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5–20 5

A. Planning process . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5–12 5

B. Vision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 8

C. Priorities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14–19 8

D. Strategic programmes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 9

III. Information and communications technology management framework . . . . . . . . . 21–46 10

A. Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21–24 10

B. Design considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 11

C. Organizational structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26–46 12

IV. Implementation plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47–71 21

A. Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47–50 21

B. Implementation of the strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51–66 22

C. Implementation of the management framework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67–71 31

V. Organizational benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72–74 35

A. Improved effectiveness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73 35

B. Increased efficiency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74 36

VI. Key factors for success . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75 37

VII. Conclusions and recommendations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76–82 37

VIII. Action to be taken by the General Assembly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83 39

 Annexes  

I. Executive interviews . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

II. Information and communications technology strategy: institutional and technological 
drivers.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42

III. Information and communications technology survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46

IV. Information and communications technology personnel of the United Nations Secretariat as 
of December 2007 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 4 
 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. The rapid growth of global networks and wireless communications has 
combined with major advances in technology to create opportunities for the United 
Nations to achieve a global and integrated Secretariat. Information and 
communications technology (ICT) can enable the Organization to be effective and 
efficient in carrying out its work and adapt to changing environments. By 
strategically harnessing the power of such technology, the Organization can 
accelerate the realization of its mission and meet growing commitments in an 
increasingly knowledge-based and interconnected global society. 

2. Significant progress has been made towards the realization of effective and 
efficient ICT operations in all offices of the Secretariat since the launching of the 
ICT strategy in 2002. Today, all offices of the Secretariat apply uniform ICT 
standards and have reached similar levels of technological capabilities. However, 
the disparate development of ICT systems — driven largely by departmental, 
regional and local needs (without a coherent Organization-wide ICT vision, strategy 
and architecture, uniform standards and a management structure) — has been 
neither effective nor cost-efficient. The absence of overall strategic management of 
ICT investments and operations has largely contributed to the current gaps and 
deficiencies reported by the Secretary-General (A/60/846/Add.1). ICT units in the 
Secretariat are highly fragmented and often operate in isolation from one another. 
Strategic ICT capabilities of the Secretariat lag behind those of other organizations 
owing to systemic under-investment for Organization-wide purposes. As a result, the 
Secretariat has not been able to take full advantage of ICT in a manner that enables 
the entire Organization to benefit from the opportunities that it offers.  

3. Recognizing the strategic importance of ICT as a critical reform instrument, 
the General Assembly, in section II of its resolution 60/283, decided to establish the 
post of Chief Information Technology Officer at the level of Assistant Secretary-
General in the Executive Office of the Secretary-General, and requested the 
Secretary-General to: (a) submit the comprehensive report on investing in ICT with 
a view to maximizing its value to the global Secretariat; (b) rejustify the level and 
resource requirements for the post of Chief Information Technology Officer; and 
(c) provide information on the functions, responsibilities, structures and staffing 
requirements of the envisaged ICT organization and its relationship with other ICT 
units in the Secretariat. The Chief Information Technology Officer assumed his 
duties late in August 2007 and, pending submission of a comprehensive report to the 
General Assembly at its second resumed sixty-second session, the Secretary-General 
provided a status report on efforts to develop the ICT strategy (A/62/502).  

4. The present report provides the comprehensive ICT strategy for the medium 
term (3-5 years), which lays the groundwork for maximizing the value of ICT across 
the global Secretariat, and the management framework needed to successfully 
implement that strategy. The strategy outlined in the report serves as the 
Organization-wide agreement on the future direction of ICT. It provides the 
foundation for achieving a comprehensive vision by enhancing existing ICT efforts 
and launching new ICT initiatives that will assist the achievement of Secretariat-
wide goals. The resources required for implementation of the strategy will be 
requested once specific project proposals have been fully developed by the Chief 
Information Technology Officer and appropriate stakeholders. Project proposals will 
be evaluated as regards their conformity with the strategy and will be approved by 



 A/62/793
 

5 08-30015 
 

ICT management oversight committees, subject to the availability of overall 
resources and organizational priorities.  
 
 

 II. Information and communications technology strategy  
 
 

 A. Planning process 
 
 

5. The strategic planning process began with a broad-based exercise aimed at 
identifying the key ICT needs of the global Secretariat. These organizational needs 
(“institutional drivers”) are combined with technological trends and market 
developments (“technological drivers”) to produce the ICT vision for the 
Secretariat. To realize this vision, a strategy encompassing five cross-cutting 
priority areas is proposed: (a) ICT management structure; (b) strategic programme 
delivery; (c) service delivery and performance management; (d) global and 
standards architecture; and (e) financial control and reporting. In turn, a set of three 
strategic programmes carries out the overall ICT strategy (see fig. 1). The 
management framework that enables the effective implementation of the overall 
vision is described in section III of the present report.  
 
 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 6 
 

Figure 1 
Information and communications technology strategy 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

6. The development of the ICT strategy rests upon obtaining a firm understanding 
of the mission, programme direction and objectives of the Secretariat and of the 
priorities of stakeholders. To this end, the planning team — the Chief Information 
Technology Officer and his advisers — undertook a series of strategic planning 
activities, including executive interviews, an Organization-wide ICT survey, 
discussions with permanent missions and technology research. The results of these 
activities are described below.  

7. Executive interviews. The planning team conducted 36 interviews with 
executive staff in December 2007 and January 2008 (see annex I). The 28 interviews 
with staff of Headquarters departments, offices away from Headquarters and 
regional commissions, focused specifically on organizational challenges and how 
ICT added value over the medium term. The remaining 8 interviews with senior 
staff from United Nations funds, programmes and other organizations focused on 
harmonization and opportunities for working together in the future.  

Institutional 
drivers 

Technology
drivers

Vision

ICT 
management 

structure 

Financial
control and
reporting

Service and
performance 
management 

Global 
architecture 

and standards

Strategic 
programmes

Knowledge
management

Resource
management

Infrastructure 
management 

Strategic programmes

Priorities

ICT strategy 

Deliver Develop Enhance Implement Improve 



 A/62/793
 

7 08-30015 
 

8. Organization-wide ICT survey. On 10 January 2008, the Chief Information 
Technology Officer launched the first Secretariat-wide ICT survey conducted at the 
United Nations. The purpose of the survey was to gauge the level of satisfaction of 
United Nations personnel with 12 core ICT services and to identify major areas for 
improvement. The survey generated 5,015 responses, with over 1,500 write-in 
comments from across the global Secretariat. Results (see annex III) showed that 
overall user satisfaction is around 71 per cent, below the 80 per cent target generally 
set for user satisfaction. However, at the organizational level (i.e., departments, 
offices and field missions), the gap in overall user satisfaction was 20 per cent 
(ranging between 62 and 82 per cent), indicating that some ICT units are providing 
ICT services that meet user needs substantially better than others. 

9. The five top-rated ICT services were basic office automation software (79 per 
cent), computer equipment and related support (76 per cent), telephone equipment 
and related support (79 per cent), e-mail services (74 per cent), and the performance 
and reliability of the Internet (73 per cent). The lowest ratings were given to training 
related to ICT technologies and services (62 per cent), remote access to 
United Nations applications (64 per cent), United Nations common application 
software (66 per cent), mobile equipment and related support (67 per cent), and the 
ability to find information on United Nations websites and in document repositories 
(67 per cent). The gap between most satisfactory service (basic office automation 
software) and least satisfactory (training) was 17 per cent.  

10. Input from permanent missions. The Chief Information Technology Officer 
consulted with permanent missions to the United Nations based in New York, both 
directly and through the Ad Hoc Open-ended Working Group on Informatics of the 
Economic and Social Council, to gather their views on ICT services. The Chief 
Information Technology Officer participated in the first meeting of the Working 
Group on 14 February, briefing its members on the ICT strategic planning process. 
The Working Group launched a survey to gauge overall user satisfaction with the 
ICT services currently available to permanent missions.  

11. Technology research. Extensive research on current technology trends and 
market developments in the ICT industry was conducted by teams of ICT staff. 
Advice from technology industry experts, such as the Gartner Group, provided 
information on technology trends, and market developments and the forecasts 
needed to develop the ICT strategy.  

12. Strategic planning retreat. A three-day strategic planning retreat was held the 
first week of February 2008, with over 25 senior ICT managers in attendance. 
Participants analysed the results of the above-mentioned strategic planning 
activities. Discussions at the retreat resulted in the identification of key institutional 
and technological drivers that form the basis of the ICT strategy. The identified 
drivers, further delineated in annex II, are as follows:  

 (a) Institutional drivers: 

 (i) Knowledge-sharing and collaboration; 

 (ii) Improvement of internal operations; 

 (iii) Communications and infrastructure; 

 (iv) Management of ICT; 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 8 
 

 (b) Technological drivers: 

 (i) Mega-trend towards connecting everyone; 

 (ii) Convergence of technologies; 

 (iii) Increased intensity and velocity of information-sharing; 

 (iv) Knowledge management tools. 
 
 

 B. Vision 
 
 

13. The vision of the Secretary-General is for a stronger United Nations for a 
better world; the new ICT vision is for strong ICT for a better United Nations. The 
vision translates into three broad goals, to be achieved over the forthcoming three to 
five years:  

 (a) Work: ICT to be aligned with the mission and work programmes of the 
Secretariat; 

 (b) People: United Nations personnel and their stakeholders to connect and 
share knowledge anytime, anywhere; 

 (c) Resources: institutional resources to be efficiently deployed and utilized. 
 
 

 C. Priorities 
 
 

14. To achieve the ICT vision, the strategy will encompass the five cross-cutting 
priority areas of ICT management structure, strategic programme delivery, service 
delivery and performance management, global architecture and standards, and 
financial control and reporting. 

15. ICT management structure. A major element of the strategy is the creation of 
a new global management structure that achieves coherence and eliminates the 
duplication and fragmentation of ICT that currently exist across the Secretariat. 
Only by bringing the mechanisms for the delivery of major ICT services under a 
single, united structure can the Organization take advantage of economies of scale 
and eliminate redundant operations. Implementing a new structure which comprises 
programme-based centres of excellence and a global service delivery model will 
strengthen organizational ownership of ICT while simultaneously improving ICT 
effectiveness and efficiency. This will, across the Organization, positively impact 
upon the quality of ICT customer services, preserve local ICT support and lower the 
overall cost of providing ICT services. 

16. Strategic programme delivery. ICT should effectively support the work 
programmes of the Secretariat. Increasing the alignment of ICT with substantive 
activities means that ICT must be more responsive to programme units so that 
changes to work programmes or priorities are quickly reflected in the ICT activities. 
In turn, this means increasing the programme ownership of ICT strategic 
programmes such that substantive organizational needs directly drive strategic ICT 
actions. To achieve near-term wins, value-added products and services will be 
quickly implemented, while strategic programmes progress over the long term. 
Potential projects include a Secretariat-wide ICT service catalogue and a portal 
dedicated to Member States.  



 A/62/793
 

9 08-30015 
 

17. Service delivery and performance management. In accordance with the 
Secretary-General’s proposed accountability framework (see A/62/701 and Corr.1), 
ICT will help to develop an open environment which allows access to the timely and 
reliable information that contributes to effective decision-making. To increase both 
efficiency and effectiveness, a new results-based measurement framework will be 
implemented; the framework will permit objective tracking of key measures of 
performance and enable improved management of ICT resources in order to enhance 
service delivery. To support this effort, the strategy calls for increasing the 
capacities of ICT staff across the board by enhancing staff skills and adjusting the 
span of control of ICT management to further improve organizational effectiveness.  

18. Global architecture and standards. Establishing an Organization-wide, 
service-oriented architecture and strong technical standards will enable the 
consolidation of ICT assets, systems and services on a global scale. This will drive 
down unit costs, lower maintenance costs, reduce deployment time and enable a 
high level of business process integration among systems. Additional efforts will be 
made to establish Secretariat-wide guidelines for adopting open-source solutions.  

19. Financial control and reporting. To maximize the value of ICT, a global 
financial framework will be established. This will allow the Office of Information 
and Communications Technology to enforce financial discipline and accountability 
for all spending on ICT. Emphasis will be placed on determining and reducing fixed 
operating costs through consolidation, improvements in efficiency and centralized 
purchasing with a view to making more funds available for discretionary 
programmes. New projects will be carefully scrutinized to determine whether they 
are adding the value to the Organization. Each main ICT initiative, irrespective of 
funding source, will be reviewed by the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology and management oversight committees. 
 

 D. Strategic programmes  
 
 

20. The ICT strategy for the Secretariat will be carried out through a set of 
strategic programmes. These programmes consist of three broad categories of 
initiatives that build upon one another. The infrastructure management programme 
provides the foundation for the essential ICT services employed globally by the 
Secretariat; the resource management programme builds upon the infrastructure 
management programme to create, process and store information on the 
Organization’s resources and enable their effective and efficient management; and 
the knowledge management programme depends upon the aforementioned two 
programmes to provide an enabling environment for capturing, managing and 
sharing the Organization’s information assets (see fig. 2). Detailed information on 
these programmes is presented in section IV below.  



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 10 
 

Figure 2 
Strategic programmes 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 III.  Information and communications technology  
management framework 
 
 

 A. Overview 
 
 

21. Information and communications technology is maturing and taking on a new 
shape as expanding worldwide communications technology increasingly facilitates 
its global management and the global operations of the Organization as a whole. 
International standards and the availability of open-source software are increasingly 
relevant to the Organization’s ICT portfolio and service delivery model. Economies 
of scale foster consolidation of ICT infrastructure, especially as technologies 
standardize and converge; basic user needs (voice, data, image etc.) are the same 
throughout the world. It is within this context that ICT management must continue 
to adapt and change.  

22. The processes associated with ICT decision-making and its underlying 
organizational structures come together under the broad concept of ICT 
management. The ICT management framework clarifies how decisions are made, 
who is accountable and how ICT activities are coordinated within the Secretariat. 
The framework presented in the present report ensures that key stakeholders take on 
the appropriate roles and responsibilities to guide, clearly and effectively, the 
management of the Organization’s activities and resources. At present, ICT 
personnel worldwide number almost 3,800 (see annex IV). ICT management is 
therefore also about how the Organization can manage this significant level of 
resources efficiently.  

23. As the long-term success of the Organization’s mission depends increasingly 
upon ICT, decision-making related to ICT becomes more critical. According to a 

Infrastructure
Management

Resource 
Management

Knowledge
management

Strategic programmes 
build upon each other 



 A/62/793
 

11 08-30015 
 

study from a premier consulting firm, organizations with high-performing ICT 
management share the following traits: clearly differentiated organizational 
strategies; clear organizational objectives for ICT investments; high-level executive 
participation in ICT management; stable ICT management, with few changes from 
one year to the next; well-functioning, formal exception processes; and formal 
communication methods.1 

24. On the basis of the previous reports of the Secretary-General and resolutions 
of the General Assembly as well as best practices in ICT management, the following 
five key principles serve as the foundation for developing the ICT management 
framework for the Secretariat: (a) organizational strategy drives ICT investments for 
better outcomes; (b) Chief Information Technology Officer responsible for the 
overall direction and performance of ICT activities in the Organization; (c) the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology provided with sufficient 
authority and resources to manage significant ICT activities that affect the entire 
Organization; (d) a sensible balance maintained between centralization and 
decentralization of ICT functions; and (e) ICT units and staff are centres of 
excellence for innovation. These principles are described in detail in a previous 
report of the Secretary-General (A/62/502, sect. III). 
 
 

 B.  Design considerations 
 
 

25. To develop an ICT-effective management framework, a number of important 
design considerations have been taken into account. These include: (a) the definition 
of ICT; (b) decision rights and advisory rights; (c) balance between effectiveness 
and efficiency; and (d) a strong centralized ICT organization. These can be 
explained as follows: 

 (a) Definition of ICT. Since ICT activities are continually evolving, it is 
important to clearly define ICT within the context of the United Nations. For the 
purposes of the present report, ICT activities are defined as those associated with 
the development, implementation and management of processes and technologies 
that enable the effective management of electronic information including data, 
documents, websites and multimedia objects (i.e., voice, data and image);  

 (b) Decision rights and advisory rights. There are two types of rights often 
given to entities involved in decision-making. Entities with decision rights 
participate in decision-making and have the authority to make decisions, while 
entities with advisory rights do not have authority to make decisions but provide 
advice or input. The assignment of decision rights and advisory rights provides the 
foundation for an effective decision-making system within the ICT management 
framework; 

 (c) Balance between effectiveness and efficiency. Effectiveness is the ability 
to achieve stated goals or objectives, measured in terms of both output and impact. 
Efficiency is the ability to maintain the same level of output with fewer resources or 
to produce a higher level of output with the same resources. The work programmes 
carried out by the Secretariat must be delivered successfully, but at the same time 
resources must also be allocated and utilized efficiently; 

__________________ 

 1  M. Broadbent and P. Weill, “Effective IT Governance: By Design”, Gartner EXP Premier report, 
Gartner, Inc.,January 2003. 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 12 
 

 (d) Strong centralized ICT organization. Centralization of ICT services 
provides an opportunity to remedy the high level of fragmentation that currently 
exists within ICT services. A strong, central ICT organization with sufficient 
authority, accountability and resources is required to effectively administer ICT 
policies, architecture and standards, and to manage the strategic programmes and 
common services that affect the entire Organization.  
 

 C. Organizational structure 
 
 

26. The core elements of the ICT organizational structure are as follows: 
(a) management oversight committees; (b) advisory bodies; (c) the Chief 
Information Technology Officer; (d) the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology; and (e) other ICT units. These organizational elements (see fig. 3) are 
described below.  
 

Figure 3 
Information and communications technology: organizational structure 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

  Management oversight committees 
 

27. To guide ICT work programmes and services, a two-tiered oversight structure 
will be established, consisting of an executive committee and three steering 
committees as follows:  

Chief Information 
Technology Officer

Executive
committee

on ICT 

Decision Rights Advisory Rights

Client 
services

Strategic 
management

Architecture and 
standards

Office of Information and 
Communications Technology 

ICT 
services

Programme 
steering 

committee 

Other ICT units

Advisory 
groups 



 A/62/793
 

13 08-30015 
 

 (a) An executive committee, the highest-level decision making body on 
major ICT matters will decide overall ICT strategy and priorities. The committee 
will comprise the Deputy Secretary-General (chair), a small number of senior 
managers at the level of Under-Secretary-General, from both substantive and 
support areas, and the Chief Information Technology Officer (ex officio member). 
The committee will meet on a quarterly basis to review ICT strategy and programme 
performance and to determine investment portfolio and management priorities, as 
needed; 

 (b) Steering committees will decide on ICT investment priorities, projects 
and other investments at the programme level. It is expected that three steering 
committees, one for each of the strategic programmes, will be established. These 
steering committees will each comprise five or six staff members at the Under-
Secretary-General or Assistant Secretary-General level and the Chief Information 
Technology Officer (ex officio member). One of the senior managers or the Chief 
Information Technology Officer will chair each steering committee, which will meet 
on a regular or as-needed basis. The strategic management unit of the office of 
information and communications technology will serve as the secretariat of the 
committees and, in particular, as the project management office (see para. 38). The 
project management office will submit business cases for each major project, with 
the support of the Chief Information Technology Officer and a project sponsor. The 
appropriate steering committees will make a final decision on implementation and 
ensure that the project corresponds to the programme strategy and is to be carried 
out within the level of resources allocated by the executive committee on 
information and communications technology. 
 

  Advisory bodies 
 

28. To provide appropriate advice and input for ICT investments and services, 
existing and new advisory groups will be utilized. The Secretariat-wide Advisory 
Group on Information and Communications Technology will be established and will 
comprise staff members at the D-1/D-2 level, representing each department, office 
or field mission. The Advisory Group will provide feedback on ICT programmes 
and services. Members of the Advisory Group will also receive periodic briefings 
from the Office of Information and Communications Technology on ICT matters. 
Member States and the Ad Hoc Open-ended Working Group on Informatics will also 
provide feedback on the ICT services available to delegates. The existing group of 
executive officers will advise the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology, as needed.  
 

  Chief Information Technology Officer 
 

29. The Chief Information Technology Officer will be responsible for the overall 
direction and performance of ICT activities in the Organization. The Chief 
Information Technology Officer will be provided with sufficient central authority 
and resources to oversee ICT activities in the United Nations Secretariat throughout 
the world. The key functions and responsibilities of the Chief Information 
Technology Officer are to:  

 (a) Provide strategic vision and leadership in the management of information 
and technology for the global Secretariat; 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 14 
 

 (b) Act as the principal representative of the Secretary-General in regard to 
issues of technology and information management; 

 (c) Provide advice to the executive committee on information and 
communications technology, in the capacity of permanent member of the committee; 

 (d) Promulgate policies and standards on ICT matters; 

 (e) Participate in the ICT steering committees which guide major ICT 
initiatives;  

 (f) Oversee ICT project implementation and change management processes 
throughout the Organization; 

 (g) Head the Office of Information and Communications Technology which 
is responsible for carrying out strategic ICT activities and for providing shared 
services affecting the entire Organization; 

 (h) Oversee, through appropriate delegation, ICT operations and investments 
in all offices of the Secretariat; 

 (i) Monitor and improve the effectiveness of the ICT management 
framework;  

 (j) As the principal representative of the Secretary-General for ICT, further 
coordination and cooperation among the organizations of the United Nations system 
in that regard. 

30. The broad scope of the functions of the Chief Information Technology Officer 
encompasses developing a Secretariat-wide strategy and leading in its 
implementation. To carry out these responsibilities effectively, the post of Chief 
Information Technology Officer has been established at the level of Assistant 
Secretary-General, reporting to the Deputy Secretary-General. This relationship 
enables the Chief Information Technology Officer to build stronger partnerships 
with senior managers of departments and offices and to assume a more strategic and 
transformational role within the executive management team (e.g., Management 
Committee) for the benefit of the entire Organization. Justification for this level of 
authority is based on best practice in both the public and private sectors, whereby 
the chief information officer commonly reports directly to top management.  

31. The Chief Information Technology Officer will increasingly play a critical role 
in reforming and modernizing the Secretariat. This transformational change requires 
clear authority and the direct support of the Secretary-General. The direct reporting 
relationship of the Chief Information Technology Officer within the Executive 
Office of the Secretary-General, along with increased access to the senior leadership 
team, provides a strong framework for implementing systemic reforms and will help 
to mitigate and overcome the effects of organizational silos and cultural resistance 
to change.  

32. This reporting relationship enables a better strategic alignment of ICT with 
substantive activities and allows for the more effective implementation of 
institution-wide changes. A number of international organizations (e.g., World 
Bank) have already adopted this approach. The Secretariat should lead by example 
in adopting this best practice in ICT leadership. The reporting relationship is also in 
accordance with the expressed intent of the General Assembly which, in resolution 
60/283, decided to establish the post of Chief Information Technology Officer in the 



 A/62/793
 

15 08-30015 
 

Executive Office of the Secretary-General. In response to the Secretary-General’s 
proposal in 2007 to place the Chief Information Technology Officer in a new Office 
of Information and Communications Technology to be established in the Department 
of Management (see A/61/765), the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions found insufficient justification for the proposal to reverse the 
decision of the General Assembly, considering it important that the appointee be 
given the opportunity to contribute to the formulation of the organizational structure 
of the Office for which he or she would be responsible (A/61/804, paras. 4-5).  
 

  Office of Information and Communications Technology  
 

33. The Office of Information and Communications Technology (see fig. 4), 
headed by the Chief Information Technology Officer, will be provided with the 
critical resources to manage significant ICT activities that affect the entire 
Organization. Without the proper authority and adequate resources under its direct 
management, the Office must constantly negotiate for cooperation and/or the 
resources to carry out strategic activities, resulting in ineffective and fragmented 
implementation of ICT strategy and programmes. Therefore, to carry out its mandate 
effectively, the Office is established as an independent unit, reporting directly to the 
Executive Office of the Secretary-General.  

34. The new ICT strategy has identified three broad areas of critical needs, 
knowledge management, resource management and infrastructure management, 
which must be addressed in a coherent manner across the Secretariat. This involves 
working collaboratively with all substantive and support organizational units in the 
Secretariat. In this regard, the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology must be independent so as to maintain objectivity and neutrality in the 
handling of supporting ICT administration, such as policy, architecture and 
standards, budgeting and performance management.  

35. The main functions of the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology are to set overall strategic ICT directions for the Organization, plan and 
coordinate Secretariat-wide ICT activities, and provide enterprise systems and 
infrastructure (see fig. 4). More specifically, its functions include: 

 (a) Developing the ICT strategy for the Secretariat and coordination of its 
implementation; 

 (b) Reviewing budgets from all funding sources for all ICT initiatives and 
operations of the Secretariat; 

 (c) Monitoring, measuring and evaluating the performance of ICT units 
against established goals, objectives and budgetary targets, utilizing accountability 
frameworks as appropriate (see para. 46); 

 (d) Setting the technological direction and architecture for the Organization; 

 (e) Planning and developing all organization-wide ICT applications, 
including, inter alia, an enterprise resource planning system and other major 
systems;  

 (f) Planning and developing the overall infrastructure architecture 
encompassing the communications networks and data centres of the Organization; 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 16 
 

 (g) Using the Organization’s global presence and ICT infrastructure to 
develop and operate Secretariat-wide applications and infrastructure in order to 
maximize benefits and cost-effectiveness; 

 (h) Undertaking, in collaboration with other ICT units, ICT research and 
development activities; 

 (i) Overseeing the assessment and management of ICT risks for the 
Organization; 

 (j) Developing and maintaining the information security policy of the 
Organization and monitoring compliance across operational units; 

 (k) Managing the implementation of disaster recovery and business 
continuity plans for the Organization;  

 (l) Coordinating ICT human resources management programme and activities, 
including staff development and mobility of all ICT staff in the global Secretariat; 

 (m) Providing business consulting and project management methodologies 
and services to all ICT units;  

 (n) Monitoring, measuring and evaluating the performance and strategic 
alignment of all projects and investment initiatives in the ICT project portfolio of 
the global Secretariat; 

 (o) Establishing ICT vendor management policies; reviewing and monitoring 
purchasing and contract renewal activities;  

 (p) Implementing quality assurance processes to ensure that all policies, 
processes and standards are in compliance. 
 



 A/62/793
 

17 08-30015 
 

  Figure 4 
Information and communications technology units of the Secretariat 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Abbreviations: CITO, Chief Information Technology Officer; CRM, customer relationship management; DAM, digital asset 
management; ECM, enterprise content management; ERP, enterprise resource planning; GIS, geographic information system; 
IM, infrastructure management; IMIS, Integrated Management Information System; KM, knowledge management; 
LAN/WAN, local area network/wide area network; OAH, Offices away from Headquarters; ODS, Official Document System; 
OICT, Office of Information and Communications Technology; RM, resource management; RSS, rich site summary; SAN, 
storage area network. 

Ed. note: RSS = format for sharing content among different websites; SAN = high-speed subnetwork of shared storage devices, 
which works in a way that makes all storage devices available to all servers on a LAN or WAN; GIS = information 
management systems tied to geographic data; CRM = functions and programmes used to connect with customers/facility of 
integrating every aspect of IT that relates to the customer. 

 
 

36. In this model, the Office of Information and Communications Technology 
leads the implementation of ICT strategic programmes and provides centralized 
shared services (e.g., core applications, network infrastructure, service desks etc.) to 
all organizational units in the Secretariat and potentially to other United Nations 
organizations. Many United Nations organizations have already implemented this 
shared services model and, according to the leading ICT consulting firm (Gartner, 
Inc.), there is a strong global trend towards the recentralization of ICT operations. 

CITO

HQ 
services 

Field 
services 

OAH
services

KM
services

RM
services 

IM 
services

DESA 
DGACM 

DM 
DM/OCSS/CMP 

DM/OHRM 
DM/OPPBA 

DPA 
DPI 

DPKO/DFS 
DSS 

OCHA 
ODA 

OHRLLS 
OIOS 
OLA 

MINURCAT 
UNAMID 
UNMIS 
UNOCI 
UNMIL 

MONUC 
UNMEE 

MINURSO 
MINUSTAH 

UNMIT 
UNMOGIP 
UNFICYP 
UNOMIG 
UNMIK 
UNDOF 
UNIFIL 
UNTSO 

UNON
UNOG
UNOV

UNODC
UNCTAD

UNEP
UN-HABITAT

ECA
ECE

ECLAC
ESCAP
ESCWA 
OHCHR
UNRWA

 ITY
ICTR

Strategic 
management 

Architecture  
and standards 

Service desk
. Workstation
Management

. Help desk

Data centre 
management
. Server/SAN
Management

. E-mail 

. Identity mgt

Communication 
management
. LAN/WAN
. Voice and
messaging

Current ERP 
. IMIS
. Galaxy

New ERP:
. Budget
. Finance
. Human Res. 
. Supply chain 
. Fixed assets 
. Travel

Special Systems 
. CRM
. Meeting
Services

Content 
management
. Taxonomy
. ECM
. ODS
. DAM
. Subscription

Web 
management
. Web content
management

. Search

. GIS

. Portal/RSS

. Web
collaboration

OICT

ICT services focus Client services focus

Other ICT Units 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 18 
 

Gartner reports that over 90 per cent of large organizations have centralized their 
ICT operations to take advantage of efficiency gains resulting from streamlining, 
standardization and consolidation of similar systems and services.  
 

  Strategic management unit 
 

37. The strategic management unit will oversee the functional requirements of the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology, including overall 
management of the implementation of the ICT strategy, as well as Secretariat-wide 
ICT planning. Budget formulation, expenditure monitoring and ICT staff career 
development are also included among its functions. 

38. Within the strategic management unit, a project management office is 
established to provide business consulting and project management services, 
including portfolio management, process re-engineering, business-case development 
and project reviews. The development of all new ICT projects, whether customized 
systems or the result of acquisitions of software packages, regardless of their source 
of funding, is subject to review by the project management office. The review 
process is intended to ensure proper strategic direction and coherence across the 
Organization. Project assessment, including benefit analysis and return on 
investment, are also examined. However, the ultimate authority for assigning 
priorities to and approving major ICT projects resides with the executive committee 
on information and communications technology, the appropriate steering committees 
and the Chief Information Technology Officer. To help review a project proposal, 
the project management office ensures that a standard business case is prepared for 
each project, facilitates the presentation of the case by its sponsor to the Chief 
Information Technology Officer for endorsement and, subsequently, with the 
support of the Chief Information Technology Officer, its submission to the 
appropriate steering committee for approval. 
 

  Architecture and standards unit 
 

39. The architecture and standards unit will coordinate Secretariat-wide 
technology planning and assessment activities, and be responsible for developing 
and maintaining overall ICT architecture, goals, principles and standards 
(technology and process). In addition, it will oversee the development of the 
Organization’s information security policy, serve as the centre of excellence in ICT 
quality control management, and ensure compliance and assume responsibility for 
planning and coordinating the Organization-wide disaster recovery and business 
continuity activities. This unit will also undertake technology research and 
development efforts, in collaboration with other ICT units. 

40. To meet the objective of closely aligning business requirements with ICT 
services, two additional sets of units will be established, with the goal of providing 
client services and ICT services. These units, together with the other core 
components, complete the organizational structure of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology. Each of these functional components will address a 
fundamental need in managing and delivering ICT programmes and services to the 
Secretariat.  
 



 A/62/793
 

19 08-30015 
 

  ICT services units 
 

41. This area comprises three functional units which, together, define many of the 
fundamental ICT activities noted as critical to the operation of the Organization, 
namely, infrastructure management, resource management and knowledge 
management. The responsibilities of the units are as follows: 

 (a) Knowledge management services. This unit has the responsibility for 
overseeing efforts to capture and share the Secretariat’s most important asset: its 
knowledge base. It oversees the work on content management and web management. 
Through the development and management of tools such as Web-based services, 
collaborative environments and document repositories, this unit will enhance the 
Organization’s ability to gather, store and deliver these valuable resources. Included 
in the unit’s mandate is responsibility for improving information management 
policies, architecture and standards for all information; also included is oversight of 
search facilities, archives and all electronic repositories;  

 (b) Resource management services. This unit works closely with departments 
across the Organization to develop tools and techniques to improve institutional 
policies and work processes for the effective management of financial, human and 
other resources. It comprises a project team focused on the development of a new 
enterprise resource planning system, a support service that will maintain the 
Integrated Management Information System (IMIS) and other existing systems. In 
addition, a team to implement service-delivery and workflow-based applications is 
included. All systems development activities, ranging from financial management to 
conference services, require a dedicated team of knowledgeable and talented 
software and business professionals. The resource management unit brings them 
together to construct and manage these critical applications;  

 (c) Infrastructure management services. This unit forms the basis for all 
other ICT services, and consists of the tools and techniques required to plan, build 
and manage the global ICT environment. Reporting to the Chief Information 
Technology Officer, this unit not only develops the Secretariat-wide infrastructure 
architecture, but operates the global service desk and oversees the central data 
centres that house and safeguard all Secretariat-wide data. In addition, this unit is 
responsible for a range of hardware and software-related services, including desktop 
computing, and for providing global data and voice communications services. The 
infrastructure management services literally form the backbone of the 
Organization’s ability to operate, and the unit has the mandate to deliver these 
services wherever United Nations personnel are located.  

  Client services 
 

42. While providing core technological capabilities to the Organization remains 
the foundation of all ICT activities, the effective delivery of services requires close 
alignment with all departments, offices and missions. To achieve this, the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology comprises three other structures 
dedicated to maintaining this close organizational association. Each structure 
contains a cluster of local ICT units, namely, New York-based services, offices away 
from headquarters, and field services. Each unit is led by a senior client services 
manager who reports directly to the Chief Information Technology Officer. These 
client services units are accountable and responsible to their respective 
organizational units for the full range of ICT programmes and services available. 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 20 
 

The professionals who serve in this capacity must build strong relationships with 
their clients to ensure the strategic alignment of ICT to substantive work 
programmes and to ensure continuous customer satisfaction for all of the 
departments within their purview.  
 

  Other ICT units 
 

43. The ICT strategy recognizes that not all ICT programmes and services are best 
delivered from a central location, and that some local ICT units provide common 
services to other institutions. In these instances, a complementary governance 
mechanism at the duty station level will be defined and implemented. Establishing a 
careful balance between Secretariat-wide activities and those at and among 
departments will help to ensure that ICT services are delivered efficiently and 
effectively. A significant level of authority will remain with local ICT units. The 
objective is to centralize resources within the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology for initiatives that impact upon the entire Secretariat 
while empowering departmental ICT units to focus on their own unique 
requirements. The goal is to avoid the current fragmentation of ICT without creating 
excessive layers of management. Achieving this balance requires a close working 
relationship between the Office of Information and Communications Technology 
and the heads of other ICT units, as well as a combination of both management 
oversight and advisory structures. 

44. Client services managers are responsible for working with local ICT managers 
to identify enterprise needs, determine local participation requirements and ensure 
that adequate resources are available to support enterprise-wide initiatives. They 
will work with local ICT managers to plan, prepare and review local ICT budgets 
with the Office of Information and Communications Technology, coordinate human 
resources activities, synchronize local and enterprise project portfolios, coordinate 
issues related to policy, standards and architecture, balance resources with demand 
and ensure a customer-based and integrated approach to the delivery of projects that 
span multiple strategic programmes. At the ICT strategic planning retreat held in 
February, extensive discussions were held on the roles and responsibilities between 
the Office of Information and Communications Technology and other ICT units (a 
matrix that captures the proposed roles and responsibilities arising from the 
discussion will be made available in a separate document).  

45. The heads of local ICT units will continue to report directly to their existing 
supervisors in their respective organizations. However, they will also be accountable 
for the implementation of Organization-wide ICT strategy, policies and standards, as 
directed by the Office of Information and Communications Technology. Local ICT 
managers will liaise with one of the three client services units of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology but may engage directly with the 
Chief Information Technology Officer on all urgent and substantial ICT matters. 
Local ICT managers will become members of a Secretariat-wide ICT leadership 
council, chaired by the Chief Information Technology Officer, and will meet several 
times each year to discuss ICT strategy, performance and management issues. The 
group will also hold regular videoconferences to coordinate ICT activities across the 
board. 

46. Finally, to ensure that local ICT managers perform at the expected level, a 
formal mechanism will be established between the Office of Information and 



 A/62/793
 

21 08-30015 
 

Communications Technology and the managers to monitor the quality of service, 
strategic alignment, and compliance with Secretariat-wide policies and procedures.  
 
 

 IV.  Implementation plan  
 
 

 A. Approach 
 
 

47. The ICT strategy will allow the Secretariat to reduce the current high level of 
fragmentation in ICT activities and deliver more effective and efficient ICT work 
programmes and services. The strategy will also permit the Secretariat to take 
advantage of synergies among various ICT efforts and of economies of scale, 
resulting in a global ICT organization that effectively supports the work of the 
Secretariat. Each strategic programme, along with a time frame for implementation 
and organizational benefits, is presented in section B below. 

48. It is expected that the implementation of the ICT strategy will take place over 
three to five years, subject to management priorities and the availability of resources 
and other support. The strategy will be implemented through close coordination of 
work among all relevant parties, including management oversight committees, 
advisory bodies, user organizations and the global ICT organization. Key 
implementation activities will include the establishment of new management 
structures, extensive business analysis to develop programme objectives and scope, 
and assignment of priorities at the programme and project levels.  

49. To carry out the ICT strategy and effectively achieve programme objectives, 
the following activities will be undertaken during the implementation phase:  

 (a) Establishment of an executive committee on information and 
communications technology; 

 (b) Establishment of steering committees for the knowledge management, 
resource management and infrastructure management programmes; 

 (c) Establishment of a project management office and a new investment 
management and business case process; 

 (d) Completion of an inventory and assessment of existing ICT assets; 

 (e) Creation of an interim financial management model; 

 (f) Development of new business cases and investment proposals; 

 (g) Completion of inventory and assessment of existing project portfolio; 

 (h) Review and prioritization of both existing and proposed projects by each 
steering committee; 

 (i) Review, prioritization and approval of initiatives and projects by the 
executive committee;  

 (j) Rebalancing exercise to align resources with highest priority projects and 
initiatives;  

 (k) Creation of a staffing plan and proposal to meet resource needs beyond 
rebalancing of existing staff and contractors.  



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 22 
 

50. The following principles will be applied during the implementation:  

 (a) Organization-focused ICT investments. All ICT endeavours (apart from 
infrastructure projects) will be considered business projects rather than technology 
projects. As such, justification and prioritization of ICT programmes and projects 
will be based on inputs from user and ICT organizations. In particular, the steering 
committees for knowledge management and resource management programmes will 
play an important role in the planning, development and implementation of 
programmes and projects under their purview; 

 (b) Modular and phased implementation. Significant efforts will be made to 
break down a strategic programme into smaller projects or efforts so that a set of 
specific capabilities can be deployed in a phased manner in order to achieve the 
early realization of benefits. This approach will also allow the Secretariat to better 
manage implementation risks and project costs;  

 (c) Time-boxing approach. This is an iterative development approach that 
enables functionality to be delivered in parts. Each iteration is completed in a time 
box of fixed duration. Functionality to be delivered is adjusted to fit the time box. 
This is an effective way to manage risks and reduce product delivery time. The ICT 
strategy will utilize this approach, when appropriate, in implementing development 
projects;  

 (d) Fast-track initiatives. While carrying out long-term strategic programmes 
and projects, the ICT strategy will make every effort to implement technical 
solutions as quickly as possible. This approach will require frequent monitoring of 
service levels so as to maintain a high level of customer satisfaction throughout the 
development life cycle; 

 (e) Provision of reliable ICT services during strategic change. It is important 
to ensure that all existing ICT projects and services are carried out in an efficient 
and reliable manner. Significant attention must be paid to ensuring the provision of 
reliable ICT services during this period and to minimizing the impact on existing 
projects and services. 
 
 

 B. Implementation of the strategy  
 
 

51. To ensure strict alignment with institutional drivers, as described in previous 
sections and in detail in annex II, three programmes are identified which are 
implemented by directly corresponding ICT service units in the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology. Each programme is a group of 
initiatives comprising what ICT will do, in accordance with the strategy and 
utilizing the management framework, to achieve the vision that has been articulated 
in response to the drivers. Each programme has a focus, rationale and proposed time 
frame (see tables 1-3). 

52. Once the ICT strategy and the management framework are established, they 
will be put into operation to identify, rationalize, detail (cost and schedule), justify 
and assign priorities among the initiatives for each programme. For each identified 
initiative, a business case will be developed, under the guidance of the project 
management office of the strategic management unit, to present concisely costs, 
benefits and return on investment. Collectively, the initiatives will be rationalized 
by the project management office to eliminate duplication, ensure the conformance 



 A/62/793
 

23 08-30015 
 

of standards and make use of comparable measures for resource requirements and 
realization of benefits. The business cases for the initiatives can then be 
transparently considered by the steering committees and prioritized for 
implementation by ICT units, including new investments and/or the redirection of 
existing resources. 

53. Estimated initiation time frames are included for each strategic programme. 
Time frames are based on views and priorities expressed during the organization-
wide interview process and on discussions with other stakeholders and ICT service 
providers. The selection of initiatives and time frames for their implementation will 
be determined by the executive committee on ICT and the steering committees, 
subject to Organization-wide prioritization and availability of resources.  
 

  Knowledge management programme 
 

54. The goal of the knowledge management programme is to provide an effective 
collaborative environment in which United Nations personnel and stakeholders 
capture, share and own the substantive knowledge relevant to their expertise. For 
example, the Secretariat is host to a number of in-house experts and the knowledge 
management programme will provide the tools to take advantage of expertise both 
within the Organization and among all stakeholders. In addition, all personnel 
generate and contribute to areas of expertise (both substantive and administrative); 
such contributions should be retained after they leave. Likewise, the operations of 
the Secretariat often generate knowledge as a by-product (e.g., in the conduct of a 
field mission or humanitarian effort). Similarly, specific functions of the 
Organization, such as the work of the international tribunals, create a legacy of 
knowledge based upon legal precedence, which can and should be made more easily 
available to relevant communities of practice and to the international research 
community at large. Processes, best practice and lessons learned can be more 
uniformly kept and made accessible with the help of knowledge management tools 
and policies. 

55. By taking advantage of both mature and leading-edge knowledge management 
technologies in the market, such as collaborative applications (e.g., wikis, weblogs 
and other Web 2.0 tools) and visualization applications, such as geographic 
information systems, the knowledge management programme will facilitate 
organizational innovation and provide United Nations personnel and stakeholders 
with the ability to fully apply the knowledge they produce. This programme will 
also support such initiatives as search tools to help locate relevant information 
quickly and easily and the analytical tools that support good decision-making.  

56. This programme will provide the enabling policies, work processes, standards 
and technological tools for knowledge management activities, while departments 
and offices provide and own substantive content. For example, a new approach to 
the public website of the United Nations will be one of the key initiatives under the 
knowledge management programme, effectively transforming the site into a 
knowledge-sharing platform that will serve all stakeholders throughout the world. 
Collaborative efforts to establish the website, http://www.un.org, as the gateway for 
finding information on the substantive and support activities of the United Nations 
are currently under way and include the involvement of the Chief Information 
Technology Officer in a web governance committee that is to be chaired by the 
Department of Public Information. Other potential projects include Secretariat-wide 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 24 
 

information management policies and standards, implementation of web-content 
management and document management systems, knowledge-sharing and 
collaborative networks, and web-based tools for permanent missions.  

57. Benefits include providing United Nations substantive programmes, Member 
States and the global public with access to relevant, easy-to-find information on 
specific issues. Overall, improved information management policies, standards, 
processes and infrastructure support an environment in which the United Nations 
becomes an authoritative knowledge broker, most notably within the scope of its 
three main pillars: peace and security, development and human rights. 

58. Table 1 summarizes the goals, objectives, potential strategic initiatives, 
proposed time frame and organizational benefits associated with creation of the 
knowledge management programme. 
 

Table 1 
Knowledge management programme 

 
 

Focus, rationale and time frame of the resource management programme 

Goal 

Provide an effective collaborative environment in which United Nations personnel and their stakeholders 
capture, share and own the substantive knowledge relevant to their expertise. 

Objectives: 
• Retain institutional knowledge 

 • Facilitate and enhance knowledge-sharing and 
collaboration 

 • Improve organization, accessibility and 
usability of information 

 • Utilize open-source solutions where 
appropriate 

 • Improve websites and web-content management 
 • Improve and enhance analytical and decision 

support capabilities 
 • Improve information management policies and 

processes 

Strategic initiatives Time framea Organizational benefits 

Digitization   

Digitize paper documents in conjunction 
with the capital master plan. 

Near term Loss of institutional memory during the capital 
master plan process is averted. Costs and risks 
associated with hard-copy storage are reduced. 

Portal for Member States   

Implement a portal to provide Member 
States with the tools to locate, use and 
exchange information and data. 

Near term A portal dedicated to Member States will provide 
timely, up-to-date information and data specific to the 
needs of delegations. 



 A/62/793
 

25 08-30015 
 

Information management policy   

Establish Secretariat-wide information 
management policies, processes and 
standards. Includes security, taxonomy, 
retention etc. 

Near term Consistent, secure and up-to-date content and data. 
Data formats are universally accessible and 
shareable. 

Web content management   

Transform the United Nations website, 
http://www.un.org, into a rich, multimedia 
knowledge-sharing platform. Provide for 
consistent user interface, robust search 
and improved content management. 

Near term The United Nations website, http://www.un.org, is 
the established gateway for finding information on 
substantive, administrative and operational activities 
of the United Nations. 

Create a collaborative and sharing 
environment 

  

Introduce enhanced tools for 
collaboration and for sharing of 
information. 

Near term The necessary technical and policy components for 
knowledge-sharing are established and the enabling 
environments are available for use. 

Data gateway (UNData)   

Promote and support a UN system-wide 
gateway for sharing statistical 
information. 

Near term United Nations statistical data are consistent, 
accessible and easy to share. The environment makes 
it easier for entities outside the United Nations to 
share statistical data with the Organization. 

Web content management, 
Secretariat-wide 

  

Migrate other Secretariat-wide websites 
(iSeek, United Nations online Network of 
Regional Institutions for Capacity-
building in Public Administration and 
Finance (UNPAN), My UN etc.), to the 
new web-content management 
environment. 

Near to 
medium 

term 

Secretariat-wide websites are easy to update, have a 
common look and feel and provide United Nations 
staff and the global public with information on 
substantive programmes that is easy to locate and up 
to date. 

Digital asset management   

Implement advanced digital asset 
management capabilities. 

Near to 
medium 

term 

Digital resources are easily accessible and available 
for repurposing. Web publishing is improved. 
Communication is enhanced and reaches a wider 
audience. 

Document management   

Implement a Secretariat-wide content 
management facility to manage official 
documents, records and business 
correspondence. Design and implement 
workflow and processes. Migrate content 
from the Official Document System and 
other content repositories. 

Near to 
medium 

term 

Enhanced search capability and faster retrieval of 
unstructured documents within content repositories. 
Document security, integrity and version control are 
improved. Document storage requirements (cost and 
space) are reduced. 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 26 
 

Enterprise portal   

Implement an enterprise portal facility to 
enable user interface customization, 
simplify access and provide a single sign-
on capability. 

Near to 
medium 

term 

Integrated and comprehensive portal technologies 
allow users to access the most relevant information 
more quickly. 

Enterprise search   

Implement an enterprise search engine to 
improve accessibility to information 
across all media types. 

Near to 
medium 

term 

Enables quick search and retrieval of information 
contained in databases, websites, and internal and 
external data repositories. 

Archives and record management   

Enhance institutional record management 
and archival capabilities. 

Near to 
medium 

term 

Institutional knowledge is retained and preserved. 
Capital master plan project is used to improve 
archival processes. 

Knowledge hubs   

Create knowledge hubs for specific 
communities of practice, regional groups, 
specialized thematic areas etc. 

Near to 
medium 

term 

United Nations substantive programmes, Member 
States and the global public have access to 
information on specific issues that is relevant and 
easy to find. The United Nations becomes an 
authoritative knowledge broker. 

 

 a Near term refers to one to two years and medium term to three to five years. Actual delivery time frames will be determined 
by the steering committee for the knowledge-management programme and subject to Organization-wide prioritization and the 
availability of resources.  

 
 
 

  Resource management programme 
 

59. The resource management programme will focus resources from throughout 
the United Nations Secretariat on a set of cross-cutting, mission-critical initiatives. 
The goal of the programme is to support management reform by improving 
performance, accountability and transparency and to enable the rapid mobilization 
of resources. Specifically, the programme will improve the Organization’s ability to 
manage, effectively and efficiently, human, financial and physical resources. To 
achieve these goals, work processes will be streamlined to improve the operational 
performance of the Organization.  

60. The programme will provide the facilities to conduct these operations, 
including specific capabilities to support the logistical and other critical and time-
sensitive needs that are characteristic of them. Another important objective of this 
programme is to provide improved support for decision-making by linking 
programmes and operations with resource data. By establishing transparent access 
and providing timely information, better management of programmes can result. 
Sample projects for this programme include a talent management system, a 
procurement system, an employee self-service portal, enterprise identity 
management and a strategic decision support system.  

61. Benefits include increased operational effectiveness, improved accountability, 
especially of senior managers, compliance with best practice and standards such as 



 A/62/793
 

27 08-30015 
 

the International Public Sector Accounting Standards, and enhanced transparency in 
the utilization of financial, human and other resources. The Secretariat will realize 
substantial efficiency gains on the part of administrative support staff and a 
productivity gain on the part of the staff at large owing to the automation of 
administrative work. In addition, the new resource management systems will result 
in substantial cost savings as a result of the elimination of redundant information 
technology systems and the consolidation of purchasing activities. 

62. Table 2 summarizes the goals, objectives, potential strategic initiatives, 
proposed time frame and organizational benefits associated with creation of the 
resource management programme. 
 

Table 2 
Resource management programme 

 
 

Focus, rationale and time frame of the resource management programme 

Goal 

Support management reform by providing institutional capabilities for effectively managing human, financial 
and physical resources. 

Objectives 

• Increase transparency, accountability and results • Increase staff learning and capacity-building 

• Improve administrative policies, processes and 
coordination 

• Improve delivery of services, including conference 
services 

• Manage resources more efficiently • Enhance staff security 
• Make informed decisions based on reliable and 

timely data 
• Strengthen deployment capabilities and effective 

support for field operations 

• Utilize open-source solutions where appropriate  
Strategic initiatives Time framea Organizational benefits 

Resource management   

Implement enterprise resource management, which will 
include human resource administration and talent 
management, financial management and logistical and 
supply chain management. 

Near term Improved management of financial, 
human and other resources. 

Enterprise portfolio management system   

Implement applications to create, manage and align the 
ICT project and investment portfolio with the business 
strategy. 

Near term ICT projects and investments are 
aligned with departmental/office goals 
and objectives. Improved business 
case process as regards approval and 
prioritization of projects. 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 28 
 

Conference and meeting management   

Implement a comprehensive system that will provide 
integrated documentation, translation and logistical 
support for United Nations meetings and conferences. 

Near term Improved management of meetings 
and of document creation, translation, 
dissemination and workflow in 
relation to meetings and conferences. 

Customer relationship management   

Implement a service-level management process to 
improve the delivery of information technology 
services and to comply with the Information 
Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) and 
international standards for service delivery. Implement 
a global request management system to improve the 
delivery of ICT and facility services. Provide customer 
self-service capabilities where appropriate. Implement 
an integrated contact, meeting, trip, and event 
management and scheduling system for the Office of 
the Secretary-General. 

Near term Improved responsiveness, timeliness, 
efficiency and quality of ICT and 
facility services. Higher customer 
satisfaction and consistent customer 
experience across service providers 
and channels. Transparent access to 
performance management data 
enabling monitoring and improvement 
of service levels. Productivity gains 
through process re-engineering and 
adoption of best practices. 

Security system   

Improve and implement comprehensive staff and 
facility security systems. Implement a global United 
Nations laissez passer system to issue and track United 
Nations passports. Create a single Organization-wide 
view of travel document data. 

Near to 
medium term

Increased security of staff at duty 
stations and while on travel. Improved 
ability to locate staff and notify others 
in case of emergency. Compliance 
with audit recommendations of the 
Office of Internal Oversight Services. 

Decision support system   

Implement business intelligence tools, including 
advanced analytics, predictive modelling and ad hoc 
reporting. Provide managers and staff with easy access 
to transactional data at the departmental and 
organizational level. 

Near to 
medium term

More timely and fact-based decision-
making. Enhanced transparency and 
managerial accountability. 

Space management   

Implement computer-aided facilities management 
software to support global real estate and space 
management 

Medium term Reduced planning time and increased 
support for data analysis activities. 
Reduced moving and operating costs. 
Space utilization is optimized. 

 

 a Near term refers to one to two years and medium term to three to five years. Actual delivery time frames will be determined 
by the steering committee for the resource management programme and subject to Organization-wide prioritization and the 
availability of resources. 

 
 



 A/62/793
 

29 08-30015 
 

  Infrastructure management programme 
 

63. The goal of the infrastructure management programme is to strengthen the 
global ICT infrastructure to support effectively Secretariat programmes and 
operations throughout the world. This requires the consolidation and standardization 
of infrastructure components to enable their more predictable and efficient 
management on a global basis. To be effective, personnel at all duty stations require 
a readily available and highly performing ICT infrastructure which provides the 
basic services for the other ICT programmes of resource management and 
knowledge management. With a consistent, manageable, global infrastructure, the 
Secretariat can harmonize activities with other United Nations organizations and 
external partners. Specifically, the global Secretariat network will be strengthened 
and remote access capability will be improved. To ensure the continued operation of 
the global Secretariat during disasters or other organizational interruptions and to 
assist in the protection of resources, including information assets and personnel, a 
comprehensive set of plans will address each location and the enterprise as a whole, 
especially in regard to the ICT aspects of business continuity and disaster recovery.  

64. The services related to infrastructure will be consolidated and extended 
globally, and will provide a service desk for the entire Organization operating 
24 hours a day, seven days a week. The global scope of infrastructure will make it 
feasible to uniformly adopt international standards related to service management, 
that is, the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standard 20000 for 
information technology service management, which defines an integrated process 
for delivering managed services to meet organizational requirements. Other best 
practices and international standards will be implemented globally, for example, the 
ISO 27000 series for information security management, which encompasses security 
control objectives and a recommended set of specific security controls.  

65. These improvements to infrastructure will allow United Nations personnel to 
communicate anytime, anywhere, enable support to be provided around the clock by 
a global help desk and provide enhanced videoconferencing services. This is made 
possible by a global communications network that is robust and reliable, providing 
common services for the Secretariat and for other United Nations organizations in 
the future. New investments in ICT infrastructure, to be set forth in ICT standards 
and policies, will promote green technologies, in conformity with the Secretary-
General’s greening initiatives. 

66. Table 3 summarizes the goals, objectives, potential strategic initiatives, 
proposed time frame and organizational benefits associated with creation of the 
infrastructure management programme. 
 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 30 
 

Table 3 
Infrastructure management programme 

 
 

Focus, rationale and time frame of the infrastructure management programme 

Goal 

Strengthen global ICT infrastructure to support effectively the programmes and operations carried out by the 
Secretariat throughout the world. 

Objectives 

• Improve network connectivity and performance • Provide enhanced videoconferencing facilities 

• Improve ICT service desk support • Enhance information security and privacy 
• Improve mobile and remote access capabilities • Improve ICT service delivery 
• Provide effective crisis management and business 

continuity 
• Utilize open-source solutions where appropriate 

Strategic initiatives Time framea Organizational benefits 

Identity management   

Create an authenticated directory of United Nations 
personnel. 

Near term Streamlined access to information, 
applications, facilities and services 
etc. 

Remote access and mobility   

Provide staff with the ability to access the United 
Nations system from home and while travelling. 

Near term Increased access to information and 
services in the field. Higher staff 
productivity. Promotion of work/life 
balance. 

Disaster recovery business continuity   

Provide disaster recovery capabilities and business 
continuity plan. 

Near term Improved preparedness in cases of 
natural or man-made disaster. 
Minimal disruption to critical United 
Nations operations and services. 

Internet protocol (IP) telephony for Headquarters 
and offices away from Headquarters 

  

Replace conventional telephone system with an 
IP-based telephone system. 

Near term Provide a more cost-effective 
telephone system with more flexible 
managerial capabilities. 



 A/62/793
 

31 08-30015 
 

Infrastructure rationalization   

Continue consolidation, standardization and 
streamlining of communications and information 
technology infrastructure. 

Near term More efficient operation of 
infrastructure. 

Green technology   

Issue policy guidelines for the procurement, use and 
disposition of technology equipment. 

Near term Compliance with the Secretary-
General’s greening initiatives and 
increased contributions by the 
Secretariat to addressing global 
environmental issues. 

Videoconferencing   

Increase the use of videoconferencing and improve 
capabilities. 

Near to 
medium term

Decrease travel time and costs, and 
contribute to broader United Nations 
greening initiatives. 

Global service desk   

Establish an around-the-clock global help desk. Near to 
medium term

Provide consistent, cost-effective 
support services to users anytime, 
anywhere. Improved provision of 
services. 

Bandwidth (connectivity)   

Provide improved connectivity to all United Nations 
departments and offices. 

Near to 
medium term

Ability of United Nations personnel 
to carry out their work more 
effectively and efficiently. 

 

 a Near term refers to one to two years and medium term to three to five years. Actual delivery time frames will be determined 
by the steering committee for the infrastructure management programme and subject to Organization-wide prioritization and 
the availability of resources. 

 
 
 

 C. Implementation of the management framework 
 
 

67. Implementation of the proposed new ICT organizational structure will require 
careful planning and preparation to ensure that operational risks are managed and 
that all ICT staff are fully engaged during the restructuring process. The Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has stated that the Chief 
Information Technology Officer should head an office which would integrate the 
Information Technology Service of the Department of Management and the 
Information and Communications Technology Division of the Department of Field 
Support (at that time known as the Communication and Information Technology 
Service of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations), and provide Secretariat-
wide leadership, including for information technology functions of offices away 
from Headquarters (A/62/7/Add.31, para. 36) and that the Organization would 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 32 
 

benefit greatly by having in place a more centralized approach to managing ICT 
initiatives and operations (A/60/7, para. VIII.47). 

68. In accordance with the expressed intent of the General Assembly, steps have 
been taken to establish the Office of Information and Communications Technology 
as an independent unit reporting and accountable directly to the Executive Office of 
the Secretary-General. It is proposed that the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology be established through the integration of existing 
resources from the Information Technology Services Division of the Department of 
Management and the Information and Communications Technology Division of the 
Department of Field Support, which together comprise approximately 433 staff and 
contractors. Accordingly, the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology would manage all of the related ICT facilities in New York along with 
the commensurate budgetary allocations, as well as relevant ICT staff, data centres 
and information-related facilities at the United Nations Logistics Base (UNLB), in 
Brindisi, Italy. 

69. The main rationale for the integration of staff and facilities is to provide the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology with the critical resources to 
plan, develop and manage strategic ICT activities that affect the entire Organization. 
Integration of the two main ICT units at United Nations Headquarters and UNLB 
will provide a larger base of ICT systems and support structures which can then 
serve as a critical mass for carrying out Secretariat-wide ICT programmes and 
services. In addition, the ICT facilities at UNLB are strategic assets for the 
Organization and will soon become the global hub for a number of Secretariat-wide 
programmes. These include hosting of enterprise systems (e.g., knowledge-sharing 
systems and enterprise resource planning system), global connectivity, business 
continuity operations, centralized service desks etc. It is envisaged that the new 
management framework (see table 4) will be implemented in two phases over a 
12-month period.  

70. During phase I (July-December 2008), the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology will review the structures and resources of the 
Information Technology Services Division and the Information and 
Communications Technology Division with a view to integrating their structures. 
Proposals to this effect will be submitted to the General Assembly at its sixty-third 
session. Management oversight committees and advisory bodies will be formed and 
strategic programmes will be formally launched. In line with this proposal and 
ongoing programme activities, structural reviews of all ICT units throughout the 
world will be conducted to rationalize and harmonize ICT operations and structures. 
Coordination and reporting relationships between the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology and other ICT units will be fully defined. An ICT 
budget and financial management processes will be established. A change 
management programme will be initiated to improve ICT communication with all 
stakeholders during the transition. ICT-wide performance management standards 
will be developed to measure the performance of ICT units against strategic and 
operational objectives.  

71. During phase II (January-June 2009), the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology will implement the results of structural reviews in all 
ICT units, as approved by the General Assembly. At the same time, the structures 
within the Office will be further optimized to support more effectively ICT strategic 



 A/62/793
 

33 08-30015 
 

programmes and services. The formal reporting relationships between the Office and 
other ICT units will be put into effect. The Office will also establish overall 
management oversight of ICT staff and facilities at UNLB and delegate appropriate 
ICT operations to the Department of Field Support. The centralized project portfolio 
will be updated to include additional projects under way in departments, offices and 
missions. A longer-term road map will be developed for the strategic programmes. 
The global service management framework will also be completed.  
 

Table 4 
Management framework for the implementation of the information and communications 
technologies strategy 

 
 

Management framework for information communications technologies 

Goal 

Implementation of the ICT strategy in two phases: phase I (July-December 2008) and phase II 
(January-June 2009). 

Objectives 

• Establish the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology 

• Form management oversight committees and 
advisory bodies 

• Develop reporting relationships between the 
Office of Information and Communications 
Technology and other ICT units 

• Develop ICT financial management and 
performance management standards 

Key activities Time frame Deliverables 

Establishment of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology 

  

Create the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology by integrating the Information Technology 
Services Division of the Department of Management 
and the Information and Communications Technology 
Division of the Department of Field Support at United 
Nations Headquarters. 

July-Dec 
2008 

Fully developed internal structures 
staff assignments and staff 
recruitment. Issuance of the 
Secretary-General’s bulletin on the 
Office of Information and 
Communications Technology. 

Establishment of management oversight committees 
and advisory bodies 

  

Develop the terms of reference, structure and 
memberships of the Secretariat bodies that will formally 
oversee and advise the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology. 

July-Dec 
2008 

Adoption of administrative policies 
and guidelines, as necessary, for the 
establishment of the Secretariat 
bodies. Initial memberships of bodies 
and leadership roles agreed, and 
formation meetings completed. 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 34 
 

Undertake structural reviews of all ICT units   

Perform operational reviews of ICT units in 
departments at United Nations Headquarters, offices 
away from Headquarters and in the field. 

July-Dec 
2008 

Recommendations made for each 
department, office and field mission 
on organizational and other changes 
to improve the effectiveness and 
efficiency of ICT operations and align 
them with those of the Office of 
Information and Communications 
Technology. 

Create ICT performance management framework   

Develop measurement standards, benchmarks and 
reporting systems to track the performance of ICT units.

July-Dec 
2008 

Development of an ICT performance 
management framework that will 
provide transparent and timely access 
to information on ICT performance in 
relation to United Nations strategic 
and operational objectives and to 
industry norms. 

Develop budgetary and financial management 
framework 

  

Design ICT global budgetary process and templates. 
Centralize purchasing demand and procurement 
activities. 

July-Dec 
2008 

Improved ICT investment governance 
process and standardized business 
case format. Set of budget 
formulation and financial reporting 
templates created. Estimate impact of 
ICT initiatives on the programme 
budget for the biennium 2010-2011. 

Establish institutional oversight of ICT activities at 
UNLB 

  

Transition management of ICT assets at Brindisi and 
Valencia (proposed) to the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology proceeds. 

Jan-June 
2009 

The Office of Information and 
Communications Technology oversees 
and manages data centres at Brindisi. 
Operational control of 
communications facilities is delegated 
to the Department of Field Support. 

Implement result of structural reviews   

Improve organizational structure for the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology and other 
ICT units. 

Jan-June 
2009 

Rationalized and harmonized ICT 
organizational structures. 

 
 
 



 A/62/793
 

35 08-30015 
 

 V. Organizational benefits 
 
 

72. When fully implemented, the new ICT strategy will result in significant and 
measurable improvements in the internal work of the Secretariat, in the delivery of 
its services to Member States and other stakeholders, and in the strengthening of 
relations with external organizations and the public. 
 
 

 A. Improved effectiveness 
 
 

73. The implementation of the new ICT strategy will enhance the overall 
effectiveness of the Secretariat. Enhanced effectiveness will be seen in a number of 
ways, including improvements in institutional memory, agility, accessibility, 
transparency and accountability: 

 (a) Institutional memory. A key goal of the knowledge management 
programme is to develop a stronger, richer, more readily shared environment of 
knowledge for the Secretariat throughout the world. This will enable the 
Organization to be more effective in the development and delivery of the 
programmes and services that support all three of the United Nations pillars: 
development, human rights, and peace and security; 

 (b) Agility. The Secretariat will be more agile and able to respond more 
quickly and proactively to changes throughout the world. Enhanced collaboration 
and streamlined document management processes supported by ICT will expedite 
substantive work, the management of documents and the sharing of knowledge 
across organizational units and geographical boundaries. The introduction of portal 
technology will provide relevant, timely information to staff members’ desktops. 
Intergovernmental processes and policy development work will be expedited as the 
Secretariat shifts from paper-based to electronic methods of accessing, managing 
and disseminating documents and data; 

 (c) Accountability. The resource management programme will support the 
accountability architecture under discussion and improve decision-making by 
linking substantive programmes and operations with accurate and up-to-date 
resource data. The resource management programme will improve the accountability 
of managers and staff by implementing performance management tools to support 
the results-based management framework while ensuring compliance with best 
practice and international standards, such as the International Public Sector 
Accounting Standards; 

 (d) Accessibility. The ICT strategy will yield further enhancements in the 
accessibility of people and information. The infrastructure management programme 
will improve global connectivity and identity management so that Secretariat 
personnel will have ready and reliable access to information and people, around the 
clock, regardless of where they are. At the same time, new tools for the delivery of 
information will provide staff with seamless access to a full array of pertinent 
information, internal and external, as required. Communication among delegations, 
Member States, members of committees and their constituencies will be enhanced, 
and they will be able to engage in policy discussions using secure, Internet-based 
collaborative tools and discussion forums. Similarly, the overhauling of the financial 
information systems used by the Secretariat and the introduction of data warehouse 
technology will expand access to financial data by authorized users; 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 36 
 

 (e) Transparency. ICT will continue to be a major enabler of the efforts of 
the Secretariat to increase its openness and to collaborate and communicate more 
effectively with Member States and other stakeholders. New technologies will 
support the rapid dissemination and effective repurposing of information using a 
wide range of high-quality electronic and print media. As a result, other 
international institutions, private sector organizations, the press, non-governmental 
organizations and the general public will gain a better understanding of the work of 
the Secretariat through greater access to United Nations websites, such as 
http://www.un.org, electronic archives and electronic discussion forums. The 
implementation of an enterprise portfolio management system and ICT budgetary 
framework will facilitate financial transparency of the ICT investment portfolio and 
enable project performance reporting to the stakeholders.  
 
 

 B. Increased efficiency 
 
 

74. The implementation of the new ICT strategy will increase the overall 
effectiveness of the Secretariat. Efficiency improvements will enable the Secretariat 
to provide services and deliver programmes in a more timely and cost-effective way. 
More specifically, the ICT strategy will contribute to organizational efficiency by 
increasing staff productivity and by helping the Secretariat reduce or avoid costs: 

 (a) Productivity. Each of the three strategic programmes contains features 
that will increase staff productivity while also yielding benefits for Member States 
and the public. For example, the infrastructure management programme will 
introduce new data centre technologies to ensure the continuing operations of the 
Secretariat through the availability of the global network and core application 
systems in cases of disaster or major disruption at United Nations locations. 
Initiatives to improve secure connectivity, from remote sites and home, will benefit 
the staff by increasing the flexibility of work arrangements and ensuring the 
continuity of Secretariat operations in emergencies. The knowledge management 
programme will enable staff to produce key outputs in less time, at reduced cost and 
of a higher quality, by making information easier to create, find and reuse. It will 
also provide staff members with a single point of access to all of the information 
relevant to their work, significantly reducing the time and effort required to locate 
and retrieve documents and data. At the same time, new content management and 
web-publishing technologies will streamline and automate the labour-intensive tasks 
involved in dissemination to a variety of internal and public audiences. The resource 
management programme uses ICT to enhance productivity by reducing the burden 
of time-consuming, low value-added administrative activities, thus enabling staff to 
spend more time on the substantive work of the Secretariat. The wide availability of 
self-service capabilities will eliminate labour-intensive manual processes and further 
raise staff productivity and satisfaction; 

 (b) Cost reduction and avoidance. Closer alignment of technology 
investments with the needs of the Secretariat will result in a more efficient 
allocation of human and financial resources. It will also generate cost savings 
attributable to more efficient decision-making and shorter project cycle times, as 
well as cost savings due to the online aggregation of products and services 
purchased by the various units across the world. The new approaches will focus on 
improving the management of ICT programmes while strengthening current 
processes for prioritizing projects and ensuring that they are implemented in a cost-



 A/62/793
 

37 08-30015 
 

effective manner. The new management structure will centralize demand for ICT 
products and services, enforce financial discipline and accountability for ICT 
spending, and generate significant cost savings through the consolidation and 
standardization of global ICT assets and services. Taking advantage of economies of 
scale will enable cost savings to be made throughout the Secretariat in a number of 
areas, including application development, global network connectivity, and 
procurement of ICT products and services.  
 
 

 VI. Key factors for success 
 
 

75. To ensure the success of the ICT strategy and programmes, the following 
conditions must exist or be provided:  

 (a) Senior management support. Senior management support for the ICT 
programmes is by far the most important factor for the success of any ICT strategy. 
While every effort can be made to align and integrate ICT activities with the work 
programmes of the Secretariat, the active involvement of senior management in and 
its support for strategic programmes are critical to achieving success; 

 (b) Budgetary resources for strategic investments. An adequate level of 
resources is needed to overcome past, systemic under-investment. Similarly, a 
multi-year ICT budgetary framework is required to effectively to support strategic 
investments; 

 (c) Streamlined policies, processes and support structures. Simplifying and 
streamlining administrative policies, processes and support structures throughout the 
Organization is important in maximizing the benefits of technology. For example, 
the policy of instituting electronic signatures will enable faster workflow, simplify 
systems, reduce paper and provide many other benefits; however, its implementation 
requires Organization-wide action beyond the area of ICT; 

 (d) An organizational culture that is supportive of change. Creating a culture 
that is supportive of change is a task that falls upon all personnel in the 
Organization and is a precursor to the successful implementation of the programmes 
and projects that will be carried out as part of the ICT strategy. 
 
 

 VII. Conclusions and recommendations 
 
 

76. Departments of the Secretariat now, more than ever, rely on information 
technology to help maximize value. In the new, technology-enabled world, ICT 
plays an increasingly important role. In addition to keeping data centres up and 
running, ICT organizations must help other leaders see what is possible, and then 
drive that vision through an organization where change is often difficult. This 
requires sufficient authority, control of resources and full membership and 
participation in the Secretariat’s executive management team.  

77. Member States have repeatedly called for changes in the way ICT services are 
administered throughout the global Secretariat. Diverse stakeholders across the 
globe have expressed the need for positive changes in ICT service delivery and in 
access to information. The creation of the post of Chief Information Technology 
Officer at the level of Assistant Secretary-General is the first step in responding to 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 38 
 

this global demand for change. The present report described the actions necessary to 
achieve the vision of a comprehensive, responsive and efficient ICT structure. 

78. The proposed ICT strategy for the Secretariat has been developed through a 
comprehensive process, resulting in recognition of the following key components: 

 (a) ICT vision. The vision of a strong ICT for a better United Nations will be 
achieved over the next three to five years by closely aligning ICT with the work 
programmes carried out by the Secretariat, connecting United Nations personnel and 
their stakeholders anytime, anywhere, and by facilitating the more efficient 
management of the Organization’s global resources; 

 (b) Priorities. A set of five cross-cutting strategic priorities have been 
developed to support the ICT vision and enable strategic programmes. These 
priorities include the development of an ICT management structure, delivery of 
strategic programmes, enhanced service and performance management, 
implementation of global architecture and standards, and improved financial control 
and reporting; 

 (c) Strategic programmes. The three strategic programmes of knowledge 
management, resource management and infrastructure management build upon one 
another and collectively address the ICT needs of the global Secretariat.  

79. To carry out the strategy effectively, a requisite ICT management framework is 
proposed to consolidate fragmented ICT resources in the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology and to establish service units directly related to the 
strategic programmes. The two key functions created within the Office to address 
Organization-wide issues are strategic management, which includes the 
establishment of a project management office, and architecture and standards. Two 
levels of oversight, the executive committee on information and communications 
technology and steering committees, are established to provide proper guidance in 
regard to ICT. In addition, an advisory group on information and communications 
technology, broadly representing the global Secretariat, and the existing group of 
executive officers will provide additional advice and expertise on key issues. 

80. The Chief Information Technology Officer provides the centralized 
coordination and decision-making necessary to drive this framework, and is the 
senior officer of the Secretariat responsible and accountable for ICT matters. To 
maintain the independence necessary to effectively carry out transformational 
changes, steps have been taken to establish the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology as an independent office reporting directly to the 
Executive Office of the Secretary-General. Given the critical role that ICT plays in 
supporting the Organization’s operational and substantive programmes, the post of 
Chief Information Technology Officer has been established at the level of Assistant 
Secretary-General, reporting to the Deputy Secretary-General. This post level is 
further justified given the scope of the Secretariat’s global resources devoted to ICT, 
which requires that the Chief Information Technology Officer provide strategic 
advice and fully participate in discussions at the senior management level. 

81. Implementation of the ICT management framework will take place in two 
phases, over a 12-month period: 

 (a) In phase I (July-December 2008), ICT management oversight committees 
and advisory groups will be established, and procedures will be defined and 



 A/62/793
 

39 08-30015 
 

formalized by means of administrative issuances. To rationalize and harmonize ICT 
organizational structures, reviews will be conducted of all ICT units, including the 
Information Technology Services Division of the Department of Management and 
the Information and Communications Technology Division of the Department of 
Field Support, and UNLB, and the results submitted to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-third session for its approval of any changes proposed to the approved 
programme of work, changes in organizational structures, and the realignment of 
resources that may be necessary; 

 (b) In phase II (January-June 2009), the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology will establish overall management oversight of ICT 
resources at UNLB, delegating appropriate ICT operations to the Department of 
Field Support. Subject to the authorization of the General Assembly, the Office will 
proceed with the implementation of the results of structural reviews of all ICT units 
and with the optimization of its structure in order to support ICT strategic 
programmes and services more effectively. The transition to a new ICT management 
framework will be completed and the Secretary-General will report to the General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session on the status of implementation. 

82. The proposed ICT strategy establishes the core building blocks necessary to 
create a strong ICT capable of meeting the operational and strategic needs of the 
global Secretariat well into the future. While the level of change is substantial, so 
are the benefits.  
 
 

 VIII. Action to be taken by the General Assembly  
 
 

83. It is proposed that the General Assembly: 

 (a) Endorse the overall approach relating to the comprehensive ICT strategy 
for the Secretariat, as contained in the present report; 

 (b) Note that the Secretary-General intends to proceed with the 
implementation of the ICT management framework in two phases; 

 (c) Note that the Secretary-General intends to proceed with structural 
reviews and the rationalization and harmonization of all ICT units, including the 
Information Technology Services Division of the Department of Management, the 
Information and Communications Technology Division of the Department of Field 
Support and UNLB; 

 (d) Request the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-third session on the results of such reviews, including the impact on and 
changes proposed to the approved programme of work, changes in organizational 
structures, and the realignment of resources that will be required. 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 40 
 

Annex I 
 

  Executive interviews 
 
 

1. Capital Master Plan 

2. Department of Economic and Social Affairs 

3. Department of Field Support and Department of Peacekeeping Operations 

4. Department for General Assembly and Conference Management 

5. Department of Management 

6. Department of Political Affairs 

7. Department of Public Information 

8. Deputy Secretary-General 

9. Department of Safety and Security 

10. Economic Commission for Africa 

11. Economic Commission for Europe 

12. Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean 

13. Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific 

14. Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia 

15. ICT for Peace Foundation 

16. International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda 

17. International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia 

18. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs 

19. Office of Disarmament Affairs  

20. Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights  

21. Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, 
Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States  

22. Office of Human Resources Management  

23. Office of Internal Oversight Services  

24. Office of Legal Affairs  

25. Office of Programme Planning, Budget and Accounts  

26. Secretariat of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development  

27. United Nations Development Programme  

28. Secretariat of the United Nations Environment Programme  

29. United Nations Population Fund  

30. Global Alliance for Information and Communications Technologies and 
Development  



 A/62/793
 

41 08-30015 
 

31. United Nations Geographic Information Working Group  

32. United Nations Children’s Fund 

33. United Nations Office at Geneva 

34. United Nations Office at Vienna, United Nations Office for Drugs and Crime 

35. United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near 
East 

36. World Food Programme 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 42 
 

Annex II 
 

  Information and communications technology strategy: 
institutional and technological drivers 
 
 

 Summarized below are the key points and priorities raised during the executive 
interview process. This input provided a foundation for the strategic programmes 
proposed in the ICT strategy and, in respect of the institutional drivers, should not 
be construed as a set of pre-approved deliverables. 
 
 

 A. Institutional drivers 
 
 

  Knowledge-sharing and collaboration 
 

1. The need for increased knowledge-sharing and collaboration was expressed 
across the board during the interview process. The specific areas identified included: 

 (a) Retention of institutional knowledge. The United Nations should seek 
ways to mitigate the risks posed by staff mobility, turnover, retirement, natural and 
unnatural disasters and the upcoming capital master plan and consequent 
displacement;  

 (b) Facilitation and enhancement of knowledge-sharing and collaboration. 
The United Nations is uniquely positioned to broker knowledge exchanges that 
improve programme delivery. This includes communities of practice as well as 
global and regional knowledge hubs and portals; 

 (c) Improved websites and web-content management. Websites are 
fragmented and inconsistent across the Organization, both in design and content. 
Web-content management systems are needed to allow consistent, real-time 
updating and harmonization of design; 

 (d) Improved organization, accessibility and usability of information. 
Information is fragmented across the Organization and is difficult to find, access 
and use. Document tracking and workflow management are needed; 

 (e) Improved and enhanced analytical and decision support capabilities. 
Databases are not integrated. The United Nations needs data mining and predictive 
modelling capabilities, as well as the accurate, timely and regular production of 
statistics across the Organization; 

 (f) Improved information management policies and processes. The existing 
information management and record retention processes and policies are outdated. 
Policies for the classification and declassification of documents should be reviewed. 
 

  Improvement of internal operations 
 

2. Internal operations would be enhanced by: 

 (a) Increased transparency, accountability and results. United Nations 
management reform is supported with the establishment of an accountability 
architecture. Auditing and compliance should be strengthened; this would include 
implementation of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards; 



 A/62/793
 

43 08-30015 
 

 (b) Improved administrative policies, processes and coordination. Processes 
and data are fragmented and inefficient. The United Nations should clarify, 
coordinate and harmonize programme functions internally and across departments 
and duty stations; 

 (c) More efficient management of resources. Business analytics and 
modelling should be used to strategically plan and manage resources. Targeted 
needs assessments and risk management frameworks should guide priority-setting. 
Industry benchmarking should be implemented; 

 (d) Informed decisions based on reliable and timely data. Accurate and 
timely core resource data from the global Secretariat should be captured; 

 (e) Fast deployment and effective support for field operations. Mandated 
missions often require a rapid response to establish essential ICT services and, to 
maintain their operations, effective integration of financial, logistical and technical 
resources; 

 (f) Improved delivery of services, including conference services. There is a 
need for an integrated global management of services, together with additional self-
service capabilities for management and staff. A shared services capability is needed 
to allow for the internal sourcing of services; 

 (g) Enhanced staff security. The United Nations is unable to identify 
consistently staff across the Organization or the United Nations system. Real-time 
access to information is needed during a crisis (e.g., a unified security response 
system); 

 (h) Increased staff learning and capacity-building. Strategic workforce 
planning is needed. Talent management should be made more effective and 
recruitment made more proactive and speedy. 
 

  Communications and infrastructure  
 

3. Requirements in regard to communications and infrastructure include: 

 (a) Improved network connectivity and performance. Connectivity and 
bandwidth are of particular concern to departments, offices and field missions in 
areas with limited access to traditional ICT infrastructure; 

 (b) Effective crisis management and business continuity. Service and support 
levels do not reflect extended needs during a crisis. A rapid response capability is 
needed; 

 (c) Improved mobile and remote access capabilities. Better remote access 
capabilities are needed to enable effective remote participation, strengthen business 
continuity and facilitate telecommuting; 

 (d) Provision of enhanced videoconferencing facilities. Current 
videoconferencing systems are ineffective and unreliable. Upgraded systems are 
needed to enable participation and improve the effectiveness and morale of staff 
serving in remote locations;  

 (e) Enhanced information security and privacy. Consolidated identity 
management is needed to ensure better physical and data security; 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 44 
 

 (f) Improved ICT service desk support. Centralized, around-the-clock 
support is needed.  
 

  Management of information and communications technology 
 

4. Areas identified in ICT management include: 

 (a) Fostering the strategic use of ICT. Greater awareness is needed among 
senior executives of the value of ICT as an enabler for achieving programme 
objectives; 

 (b) Improved ICT governance framework. Centralized and decentralized 
functions should be rationalized, and a coherent ICT governance framework 
established; 

 (c) Enhanced ICT budgetary framework. The current budgetary framework 
does not allow for rational investment in ICT;  

 (d) Improved ICT policy, standards and processes. Organization-wide 
policies are needed for information management, security and privacy; 

 (e) Improved ICT service delivery. Fragmentation of ICT systems across the 
Secretariat should be reduced and existing systems made available to other 
locations, wherever possible. ICT training must be increased;  

 (f) Harmonization with other United Nations agencies and pursuit of 
alternative sourcing strategies. The Secretariat should work more collaboratively 
with other United Nations organizations to take advantage of synergies and 
economies of scale in applications, services and purchases. 
 
 

 B. Technological drivers 
 
 

5. Mega-trend towards connecting everyone. The world is becoming 
increasingly interconnected. This mega-trend towards connecting everyone is 
supported by the rapidly growing volume of global communications and by the 
infrastructural enhancements planned for the medium term in underserved markets, 
such as Africa and major portions of Asia. 

6. Convergence of technologies. Cell phones, digital radio, satellite phones and 
other mobile technologies continue to advance rapidly, enhancing the ability to 
communicate without wired access. Simultaneously, the underlying technologies are 
converging such that a single connection can carry voice, image and/or data, 
regardless of whether the connection is established by means of a copper wire, fibre 
cable or, wirelessly, satellite or radio. Usually a mix of these technologies is 
employed in a way that is transparent to the users. 

7. Increased intensity and velocity of information-sharing. Building upon the 
accelerating electronic connections among people, new personal technologies are 
increasing the velocity of information; information is being captured and shared 
ever more quickly and effectively and in newer forms and combinations. These 
technologies aim to facilitate creativity, collaboration and sharing among users and 
are collectively known as Web 2.0; they include wikis, blogs, podcasts etc., and 
social networking sites, such as YouTube, MySpace, Facebook etc. Together, a new 
paradigm for connectivity is being established in a trend that will continue strongly 



 A/62/793
 

45 08-30015 
 

in the medium term: the creation of knowledge-intensive environments in which 
human interactions generate content that is published, managed and used by means 
of network applications.  

8. Knowledge management tools. Some information technologies have matured 
and can be efficiently exploited over the medium term; such technologies are 
expected to strengthen their positions as the broadly adopted ICT building blocks of 
major global enterprises. Enterprise resource planning is the fundamental tool for 
managing financial, human, and physical resources, and is one of the major ICT 
initiatives of the Organization in the medium term. Other technologies have also 
reached maturation and can be employed in beneficial initiatives: information 
portals and search engines can provide much-improved access to information across 
the board and for specific groups, such as the delegations of Member States. 
Enterprise content management is a broad category of tools that facilitate the 
capture and sharing of the Organization’s knowledge in electronic form, whether 
text, audio or video. Customer relationship management will help to coordinate the 
efforts of the Organization to deliver, efficiently and uniformly, to a diverse set of 
internal and external customers. 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 46 
 

Annex III 
 

  Information and communications technology survey 
 
 

 A. Topics  
 
 

1. Computer equipment (e.g., computer, monitor, printer, scanner etc.) and 
related support 

2. Performance and reliability of the Internet  

3. E-mail services (LotusNotes mail, archiving, calendar, mailing lists etc.) 

4. Remote access to United Nations applications and information while travelling 
to or from home (Webmail, Intranet etc.) 

5. Telephone equipment and related support 

6. Mobile equipment (cellular phone, BlackBerry, personal digital assistant 
(PDA) etc.) and related support 

7. Basic office application software (word-processing, spreadsheets, 
presentations etc.) 

8. Department-specific application software (specialized local applications and 
databases) 

9. United Nations common application software (e.g., Integrated Management 
Information System, official document system, Galaxy, Performance Appraisal 
System (ePAS) etc.) 

10. Finding information on United Nations websites and in document repositories 
and databases  

11. Help desk services 

12. Training related to the above-mentioned ICT services, systems and tools 

13. Overall ICT effectiveness 
 
 



 A/62/793
 

47 08-30015 
 

 B. Respondent demographics  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

By Location/Duty 
Station 
By Location/Duty 
Station 
By location/duty
station 



A/62/793  
 

08-30015 48 
 

 C. Satisfaction levels, by service 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Target for ICT Services is 80% 



 A/62/793
 

49 08-30015 
 

Annex IV 
 

  Information and communications technology personnel of 
the United Nations Secretariat as of December 2007a 
 
 

Department or office D P FS, L GS
Total 

international Local UNV ICC 
Contractual 

staff Total

Department of Management 
(Information Technology 
Services Division and other) 5 115 97 217  30 82 329

Department of Field Support and 
field missions 1 103 606 5 715 1 057 245 255 410 2 682

Other departments at 
Headquarters 1 44 60 105   105

Regional commissions 40 3 78 121 61   63 245

International Criminal Tribunal 
for Rwanda 7 24 31 23  11 65

International Tribunal for the 
Former Yugoslavia 10 59 69   69

United Nations Office at Geneva 33 55 88   14 102

United Nations Office at Nairobi 11 38 49   11 60

United Nations Office at Vienna 
and United Nations Office on 
Drugs and Crime 1 8 5 75 89 2  35 126

 Total 8 371 638 467 1 484 1 143 245 331 580 3 783
 

Abbreviations: D, Director; FS, Field Service; GS, General Service category; ICC, International Computing 
Centre; L, project personnel; P, Professional category; UNV, United Nations Volunteers. 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 a Data collected from United Nations departments, offices and field missions during the ICT 
strategic planning exercise. 


