
 United Nations  A/67/651

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
20 December 2012 
 
Original: English 

 

12-65952 (E)    310113 
*1265952*   

Sixty-seventh session 
Agenda item 128  
Financial reports and audited financial statements, 
and reports of the Board of Auditors 
 
 
 

  Report of the Board of Auditors on the handling of 
information and communications technology affairs in  
the Secretariat 

 
 

  Note by the Secretary-General 
 
 

 The Secretary-General has the honour to transmit to the General Assembly a 
letter dated 19 December 2012 from the Chair of the Board of Auditors transmitting 
the report of the Board on the handling of information and communications 
technology affairs in the Secretariat. 



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 2 
 

  Letter of transmittal 
 
 

19 December 2012 

 I have the honour to transmit to you the report of the Board of Auditors on the 
handling of information and communications technology affairs in the Secretariat. 
 
 

(Signed) Liu Jiayi 
Auditor-General of China and Chair of the Board of Auditors 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The President of the General Assembly 
of the United Nations 
New York 



 A/67/651
 

3 12-65952 
 

  Report of the Board of Auditors on the handling of 
information and communications technology affairs in  
the Secretariat 
 
 
 

 Summary 
 

  Introduction 
 

 There are over 70 different information and communications technology (ICT) 
units in various departments, offices and field missions, and nearly 2,000 software 
applications in use across the United Nations Secretariat. Information on ICT 
budgets is not routinely captured, but a review undertaken by the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology in 2010 estimated that annual ICT 
budgets across the Secretariat totalled as much as $774 million a year. The Board of 
Auditors can provide no assurance on this figure, which suffers from a number of 
limitations. (For example, it excludes capital budgets, does not capture actual 
expenditure and covers only proposed budgets because approved budgets do not 
contain sufficient detail to isolate relevant ICT components.) 

 In January 2012, the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions requested the Board of Auditors to audit and evaluate the handling of ICT 
affairs in the Secretariat, including the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology. The present report contains the findings and recommendations of the 
Board resulting from the audit, which was undertaken in October 2012.  

 Despite the serious issues highlighted in the report, the Board recognizes that 
the Administration has demonstrated important achievements at an operational level, 
such as those related to the challenges posed by the capital master plan. The Board 
notes the consistently positive feedback given by business users regarding the Office 
of Information and Communications Technology and ICT staff in other offices in the 
discharge of their operational functions and their commitment to quality service.  

   
  Overall conclusion 

 

 The United Nations sought to enforce a more centralized implementation and 
delivery strategy through the appointment of a Chief Information Technology Officer 
and the creation of the Office of Information and Communications Technology. This 
approach was unsuccessful and failed to establish a common vision and commitment 
across the Organization. The United Nations operates more like a network of 
organizations, rather than a single, global and homogenous entity, which means that 
transformation cannot be achieved solely through the work of a central ICT function 
that lacks the authority to enforce change. The Board considers that a global ICT 
strategy for the United Nations is unlikely to be successful unless these fundamental 
managerial and structural issues are understood and addressed, for example, through 
strengthened governance and the appropriate tailoring of strategies. The Board has 
proposed a way for senior management to consider addressing some of the structural 
barriers to successful business transformation by striking the right balance between 
central control and operational freedoms (see figure III). 



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 4 
 

 In essence, if the United Nations wants a more centralized ICT structure and 
strategy, then senior management must support and drive more centralized decision-
making and corporate behaviour from the centre. If senior management believes that 
it cannot successfully support and drive ICT-enabled change from the centre because 
of the current organizational and managerial structure of the United Nations, then it 
may need to consider an alternative approach to the development and implementation 
of an ICT strategy. 

 The Board is very concerned that the United Nations does not have an 
adequately secure information environment. There is no overall approved 
information security policy embedded in the United Nations administration, nor is 
there harmonization of security environments across the Secretariat. The Secretariat 
expressed its deep concern that prominently highlighting detailed issues regarding 
ICT security in a public report might present increased risks to the Organization. 
Without offering judgement, the Board accepted the force of the argument and has 
therefore prepared a separate memorandum, addressed to the Chair of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, in which it sets out its 
detailed findings and recommendations in relation to ICT security. It is for the 
Secretariat to explain the nature of its concerns to the Committee, if required. 

 The Board has already noted that there has been no overall coherent view, 
framework or planned agenda that would allow the various United Nations business 
transformation projects to deliver the right strategic long-term outcome for the 
Organization (see A/67/5 (Vol. I)). The Board has also noted the absence of clear and 
effective governance and accountability arrangements for major business 
transformation programmes and weaknesses in control owing to the absence of 
regular financial management information to inform decision-making. 

 The reasons for the non-delivery of the ICT strategy mirror many of these 
issues. For example, the governance and accountability structures established to 
support the implementation of the ICT strategy did not operate effectively and senior 
management did not adequately assess the business environment and understand its 
requirements before developing the strategy. There is also no Secretariat-wide 
overview of ICT spending because management information does not routinely 
capture relevant expenditure, which has increased the risk of funding being directed 
to lower-priority activities. 

 The expectations created in 2006 have not been met and the three main 
objectives of the ICT strategy published in 2008 have not been delivered. As a result, 
the risk that the United Nations ICT systems are insufficiently aligned to support the 
achievement of the Organization’s objectives persists; staff and stakeholders cannot 
share important information and knowledge anytime, anywhere; and ICT resources 
are being utilized ineffectively and inefficiently. 

 If an ICT-enabled business transformation is to be successful in the Secretariat, 
senior management needs to establish a clear and shared vision for how ICT 
innovation could support business needs and the achievement of United Nations core 
objectives. 

 The Administration has accepted all of the recommendations in the present 
report and in the memorandum on ICT security addressed to the Chair of the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions. The 
Administration has informed the Board that it will conduct a comprehensive review 



 A/67/651
 

5 12-65952 
 

of its ICT strategy and governance, ICT operations and structure and ICT resource 
allocation and that it will submit a report to the General Assembly, at its sixty-eighth 
session, in 2013. The Administration has stated that, in that report, it will take into 
consideration all of the recommendations made by the Board in this report, as well as 
the decisions taken by the Assembly in reaction to this report during its resumed 
sixty-seventh session. 

 The Board notes both the Administration’s open acknowledgement of the issues 
raised in this report and its commitment to act upon them decisively to improve the 
current ICT situation in the Secretariat. The Board agrees that the Administration 
needs to undertake a comprehensive review of its ICTs before putting forward a well-
considered and robust plan to address the full range of recommendations in this 
report. It is not feasible for the Administration to have completed such a review 
before the resumed sixty-seventh session of the General Assembly, early in 2013. It 
is essential, however, that when the Administration submits its report to the 
Assembly, in late 2013, it clearly set out the steps that it proposes to take and the 
timeline and cost of implementation. In addition, the Board emphasizes that, for an 
area as strategically important and fast-moving as ICT, the formulation and 
management of a strategy must be an iterative and continuous process. 
 

  Key findings and recommendations 
 

 The Board has identified a number of key elements that need to be in place for 
an organization to effectively use and benefit from ICT services. These include a 
clear and comprehensive business strategy that is owned and communicated by the 
executive management, and effective governance and accountability arrangements to 
manage business transformation. The Board has undertaken its assessment against 
these elements and identified the following key findings: 

 • The United Nations does not have an adequately secure information 
environment and this must be urgently addressed. Senior management has 
not established accountability and responsibility for improving information 
security across the Secretariat. The Board is very concerned that the existing 
security controls fall short of what it would expect in a modern, global 
organization. 

 •  The autonomous nature of the entities that constitute the Secretariat and 
the resulting business model were not sufficiently taken into account in 
designing and trying to implement a centralized ICT-enabled 
transformation. The approach to implementing both the ICT strategy and the 
enterprise resource planning system, Umoja, has been designed to enable a new, 
globally consistent operating model. However, insufficient attention has been 
paid to assessing how realistic this model is in the context of the United 
Nations; understanding the culture, business environment and other factors that 
need to be amended before such a major change to how the Organization 
operates can be made; preparing the Organization for this change; or 
identifying how Umoja and the ICT strategy could support this new way of 
working. The Board considers that either these fundamental structural issues 
need to be understood and addressed or that the approach needs to be tailored 
accordingly, if an ICT-enabled transformation is to have a greater chance of 
success in the United Nations. For example, there needs to be a better 
recognition and understanding of what are genuine Organization-wide activities 



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 6 
 

that require strong central control and for which activities entities, offices away 
from Headquarters and missions require or merit operational freedom. 

 • The ICT strategy did not provide a clear direction or describe how ICT 
changes were essential to business needs or to the core objectives of the 
United Nations. The strategy did not reflect the importance of the project for 
the implementation of Umoja, it was not funded appropriately or communicated 
effectively, and it was not aligned with United Nations culture and practice. As 
a result, the strategy was delivered only partially and its three main objectives 
have not been achieved.  

 • The United Nations governance and accountability framework, as well as 
funding arrangements, have not been aligned to the Administration’s 
ambitions for an ICT-enabled transformation. Funding for ICT has been 
short term and fragmented across the Secretariat. This has encouraged tactical 
and operational delivery rather than a focus on strategic and corporate 
priorities. There has been no Secretariat-wide overview of ICT spending 
because management information does not routinely capture relevant 
expenditure, which has in turn increased the risk of funding being directed to 
lower-priority activities. In addition, the ICT governance structure established 
by the Chief Information Technology Officer to lead and manage the 
Secretariat’s ICT affairs has been ineffective in setting a clear strategic 
direction, adding strategic value or engendering a common vision and 
commitment across the Organization. 

 • The scope and remit of the Chief Information Technology Officer with 
regard to a strategic vision, business transformation and leadership was 
not clearly defined, communicated or understood within the Secretariat, 
nor was it clearly differentiated from the function of managing day-to-day 
ICT operations. For example, the designation of the Secretariat’s most senior 
information officer as “chief information technology officer” (rather than as 
“chief information officer”) contributed to the expectation that the post would 
have a technical focus and encouraged behaviours that were consistent with an 
operational view of ICT. As a result, the Chief Information Technology Officer 
and management directed insufficient attention to (a) transformation, change or 
strategic leadership of the ICT function and (b) the development and 
enforcement of Secretariat-wide corporate guidance, frameworks, standards and 
policies. 

 • The Administration has no strategy for software applications. There are 
nearly 2,000 software applications in use across the Secretariat, many of 
which were developed locally and perform duplicate functions. The lack of 
control over software applications opens the Organization to security risks and 
increases the risk of unnecessary expenditure and exploitation by software 
vendors because the Organization does not have a clear picture of who has 
purchased which applications from whom, under what terms and at what price. 
The proliferation of software applications also increases maintenance and 
support costs. The Administration expects 600-700 of these applications to be 
decommissioned following the implementation of Umoja 

 • The skills base of the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology is predominantly directed at the running of day-to-day ICT 
operations rather than at leading business transformation. Approximately 



 A/67/651
 

7 12-65952 
 

82 per cent of the 366 posts in the Office are designated as operational. This, 
combined with the fact that the post of head of the Strategic Management 
Service has been vacant for 18 months, means that only a small proportion of 
the Office’s staff are dedicated to executing a challenging global strategic 
agenda, leading change or driving innovation. 

 In the light of those findings, the Board makes detailed recommendations in the 
main body of the present report, all of which the Administration has agreed with. In 
summary, the main recommendations are the following: 

 (a) The Administration should develop a new ICT strategy that is 
consistent with United Nations objectives and realistic ambitions for 
transformation; 

 (b) The Administration should recognize the changes that need to be 
made in responsibilities and the operating model of the Secretariat in order to 
deliver any new ICT strategy, and accept that senior management as a whole is 
responsible for the delivery of Organization-wide changes to support the Chief 
Information Technology Officer; 

 (c) The Administration should emphasize the strategic priorities of the 
Chief Information Technology Officer by redefining the functions of the post 
and amending the title, evaluate whether there is a need to appoint a chief 
technology officer or designate an existing post with the specific function of 
assisting the chief information officer in operational matters, and clearly define 
and communicate the different roles of those two officers across the Secretariat, 
in particular the scope and remit of the chief information officer with regard to 
strategy and business transformation; 

 (d) The entities, offices and programmes comprising the United Nations 
should prioritize ICT funding to ensure that sufficient attention is given to 
transformation, improvement and leadership, designing and enforcing 
corporate guidance, frameworks, policies and standards and operational 
services; 

 (e)  The Administration should clearly specify how the chart of accounts 
in Umoja will enable ICT expenditure to be captured and monitored effectively, 
and consider whether any options for improving management information on 
ICT expenditure could be pursued prior to the implementation of Umoja; 

 (f) The Administration should develop an application management 
strategy to minimize security risks and reduce costs while also addressing 
enterprise-wide applications and any necessary data migration; 

 (g) The Administration should, over time, redirect existing resources of 
the Office of Information and Communications Technology to more strategic 
activities and consider the use of alternative sourcing arrangements for day-to-
day ICT support services. 

 



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 8 
 

  Report of the Board of Auditors on the handling of 
information and communications technology affairs in 
the Secretariat 
 
 
 

Contents 
 Page

I. Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

II. Mandate, scope and methodology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

III. Findings and recommendations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

A. Strategy and business model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

B. Business transformation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

C. Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

D. People. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

E. Service management and technology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28

IV. Acknowledgement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

 



 A/67/651
 

9 12-65952 
 

 I. Background 
 
 

1. Information and communications technology (ICT) allows organizations to 
understand, use and communicate information. Effective ICT is essential in 
supporting United Nations work on a broad range of issues, including peacekeeping, 
security, development, human rights, international affairs and humanitarian 
assistance. 

2. Dependence on ICT has increased in the past two decades, as developments in 
technology have created opportunities for greater effectiveness and increased the 
need for organizations to protect their information assets, knowledge and systems. 
The United Nations requires the effective provision of ICT services to support a 
wide range of critical administrative and operational activities, both at Headquarters 
and in the field. 

3. To support critical functions and to help the United Nations protect its 
information, improve its decision-making and build strong financial management, 
the ICT function manages the following: 

 (a) Information and applications that help to manage United Nations daily 
operations, including with regard to finance (the Integrated Management 
Information System) and human resources management (Inspira); knowledge 
management systems that make it possible to store and search for and in United 
Nations documents (the Official Document System); and logistics systems and field 
support applications (the Electronic Vehicle Management System); 

 (b) ICT support for more than 43,000 staff members around the world 
(including more than 23,000 staff in the field) and some 100,000 United Nations 
peacekeepers; 

 (c) Major infrastructure, including two secure data centres (located at 
Brindisi, Italy, and Valencia, Spain, and owned and operated by the United Nations), 
networks, satellite and field-based communications facilities and 83,000 desktop 
users in 160 locations worldwide. 

4. For an overview of the scope and scale of ICT services in the Secretariat, see 
figure I. 

5. The United Nations is a complex organization comprising multiple entities, 
offices and projects across the globe. Many of these entities have a high degree of 
autonomy and work independently of each other to fund, design, procure and run 
their own ICT systems. They have often failed to reuse or adapt systems already 
available in other United Nations entities. As a result of this lack of harmonization, 
the Administration estimates that there are nearly 2,000 software applications in use 
across the Secretariat. 

 



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 10 
 

  Figure I 
Scope and scale of information and communications technology affairs in 
the Secretariat  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

6. To achieve an integrated Secretariat and enable the Organization to be more 
efficient and effective in meeting its growing commitments, the General Assembly 
sought to reform ICT across the Secretariat. In 2006, the post of Chief Information 
Technology Officer was created and the incumbent was given responsibility for 
providing a strategic vision and leadership in the management of ICT for the 
Secretariat. 

7. In 2008, the Chief Information Technology Officer published a three-to-five 
year strategy for maximizing the value of ICT across the Secretariat in which he 
identified the high level of fragmentation of ICT activities and resources across the 
Secretariat as the key reason why ICT had not realized its full potential in the 
United Nations. To address this issue, the strategy set out to achieve three main 
aims: 

 (a)  To create an ICT environment that is aligned with the mission and work 
programmes of the Secretariat; 

 (b)  To enable United Nations staff and their stakeholders to connect and 
share knowledge anytime, anywhere;  

 (c)  To allow ICT resources to be deployed and utilized efficiently. 

Customers

Major 
offices

Major ICT 
business 
areas

Key systems

United Nations
Headquarters

Official 
Document 

System

IMIS 
(headquarters) Galileo

Peacekeeping
missions

Offices away 
from 

Headquarters

Regional 
commissions

iNeed

New York Geneva NairobiVienna Santiago

Valencia, 
Spain

BangkokBeirut Addis Ababa

Department of 
Field Support 

and field 
missions

ICT budget: 
$584 m

ICT staff: 2,875

All other 
departments at 
Headquarters 
(excluding DFS 

and OICT)
ICT budget: 

$87.6 m
ICT staff: 375

United 
Nations 
Office at 
Vienna

ICT budget: 
$14.5 m
ICT staff: 

139

United 
Nations 
Office at 
Geneva

ICT budget: 
$12.4 m

ICT staff: 120

Inspira

iSeekun.org

Sun

Mercury

OICT 
ICT budget:

$54m
ICT staff: 366

1,885 other United 
Nations systems

Summary of 
facts

• 43,800 United Nations staff and 116,00 peacekeeping personnel
• 160 user locations with 70 ICT units
• 4,200 ICT staff, including 366 ICT staff in OICT at Headquarters
• Estimated $774 million annual United Nations ICT budget
• 1,994 systems across the Secretariat, eight of which are enterprise applications managed 

by OICT at Headquarters

Other field 
operations

United 
Nations 
Office at 
Nairobi

ICT budget:
$6.1 m

ICT staff: 62

Arusha,
Tanzania

The Hague

Customers

Major 
offices

Major ICT 
business 
areas

Key systems

United Nations
Headquarters

Official 
Document 

System

IMIS 
(headquarters) Galileo

Peacekeeping
missions

Offices away 
from 

Headquarters

Regional 
commissions

iNeed

New York Geneva NairobiVienna Santiago

Valencia, 
Spain

BangkokBeirut Addis Ababa

Department of 
Field Support 

and field 
missions

ICT budget: 
$584 m

ICT staff: 2,875

All other 
departments at 
Headquarters 
(excluding DFS 

and OICT)
ICT budget: 

$87.6 m
ICT staff: 375

United 
Nations 
Office at 
Vienna

ICT budget: 
$14.5 m
ICT staff: 

139

United 
Nations 
Office at 
Geneva

ICT budget: 
$12.4 m

ICT staff: 120

Inspira

iSeekun.org

Sun

Mercury

OICT 
ICT budget:

$54m
ICT staff: 366

1,885 other United 
Nations systems

Summary of 
facts

• 43,800 United Nations staff and 116,00 peacekeeping personnel
• 160 user locations with 70 ICT units
• 4,200 ICT staff, including 366 ICT staff in OICT at Headquarters
• Estimated $774 million annual United Nations ICT budget
• 1,994 systems across the Secretariat, eight of which are enterprise applications managed 

by OICT at Headquarters

Other field 
operations

United 
Nations 
Office at 
Nairobi

ICT budget:
$6.1 m

ICT staff: 62

Arusha,
Tanzania

The Hague



 A/67/651
 

11 12-65952 
 

8. In 2009, the Office of Information and Communications Technology was 
established to provide enterprise-wide oversight of ICT programmes, budgets and 
decision-making and ensure alignment with the Secretariat’s overall ICT strategy. 
The Office was also given responsibility for the delivery of ICT services at 
Headquarters, in New York. The Secretariat’s other ICT operations are 
decentralized, with over 70 different ICT units in various departments and offices, 
including field missions and offices away from Headquarters. 

9. Because of a lack of good corporate data and clarity over what is defined as an 
ICT expenditure or an ICT post, consolidated and consistent information on ICT 
expenditure is not routinely captured in the Secretariat (see para. 25). A review 
undertaken by the Office in 2010, however, estimated that annual ICT budgets 
across the Secretariat totalled as much as $774 million, 75 per cent of which was 
attributable to peacekeeping operations and special political missions.1  

10. The review also estimated that 4,219 individuals worked in ICT roles 
(including in staff posts and as external contractors), the majority of whom (68 per 
cent) were working in peacekeeping and special political missions. However, 
because of a lack of standard ICT job titles, in its review the Office had to make 
broad assumptions about what constituted an ICT role. For example, all staff 
working in ICT units were assumed to have an ICT role, whereas staff who 
performed ICT functions but were not part of an ICT unit or did not hold an ICT job 
title were excluded. 
 
 

 II. Mandate, scope and methodology 
 
 

11. In January 2012, the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions requested the Board of Auditors to audit and evaluate the handling of ICT 
affairs in the Secretariat, including the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology. The present report contains the findings and recommendations of the 
Board’s audit and is the result of an evaluation undertaken in October 2012. 

12. The Board has identified a number of key elements that need to be in place for 
an organization to effectively use and benefit from ICT services (see the table 
below). The present report assesses the Administration’s handling of its ICT affairs 
across the Secretariat against these key elements. In carrying out the review, the 
Board tailored its approach to the context of the United Nations environment by 
focusing on the following: 

 (a) Elements that have the greatest impact across the Secretariat as a whole 
(strategy and business model, business transformation and governance);  

 (b) Specific aspects of the Office’s performance with regard to people, 
service management and technology that underpin its credibility and therefore 
determine whether the Office has the leadership, authority and ability necessary to 
lead strategic change. 

__________________ 

 1  This figure covers only proposed budgets because approved budgets do not contain sufficient 
detail to isolate relevant ICT components. It also excludes ICT capital budgets attributable to 
section 33 of the budget (construction, alteration, improvement and major maintenance) and 
Umoja. 



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 12 
 

Table 
Elements for assessing the effectiveness of information and communications technologies in an organizationa 

 

Key element Evaluation criteria Importance to an organization 

Strategy and business 
model 

Is there a clear and comprehensive 
business strategy and model underpinned 
by the ICT strategy that is owned and 
communicated by executive 
management? 

Establishes a clear direction that sets 
priorities and guides organizational 
investment and operations.  

Can serve to inspire the organization and 
helps to shape culture and organizational 
style, ensuring that all leaders are 
striving for the same goal. 

Business transformation Is the plan and approach to 
transformation clearly defined 
throughout the organization and are 
expectations set and met? 

Creates a unity of purpose, maximizing 
the strengths of the organization and its 
people. 

Helps to manage risk and optimize the 
benefits from transformative change. 

Governance  Are effective governance and 
accountability arrangements in place to 
manage business transformation? 

Helps to bring change agents together in 
a productive environment of challenge to 
optimize organizational investment and 
operations. 

People Are staff motivated and do they have the 
appropriate skills? 

Aligns staff objectives and focus to the 
overall objectives of the organization. 

Service management and 
technology  

Is there an “intelligent customer” 
process between the business and ICT 
that articulates needs and requirements 
within the overall strategy? Is there a 
clear information strategy and technical 
architecture that is secure, optimized and 
understood and supported by the 
business? 

Creates and ensures alignment with the 
overall strategy and model.  

Enables many aspects of organizational 
performance. 

 

 a The Board has not examined United Nations business processes because this would require the examination of multiple 
business processes across multiple entities. 

 
 

13. The Board has discussed its findings, conclusions and recommendations with 
the Administration and, where appropriate, the Administration’s comments have 
been reflected in the present report. The Board coordinated closely with the Office 
of Internal Oversight Services to understand and, where appropriate, utilize the 
results of recent internal audits. The Board has also considered the findings and 
recommendations arising from the review of ICT governance across the United 
Nations system conducted by the Joint Inspection Unit in 2011 (see A/67/119).  



 A/67/651
 

13 12-65952 
 

 III. Findings and recommendations 
 
 

 A. Strategy and business model 
 
 

  Formulation of the strategy 
 

14. An organization’s ICT strategy should establish a vision and a clear set of 
priorities and actions that will help it to achieve the vision. Supported by effective 
ICT governance, the strategy can then drive the optimization of existing ICT 
investments and ensure that new ICT investments generate maximum value for the 
organization and address key risk areas. 

15. The United Nations published an ICT strategy in April 2008. It had three main 
aims: 

 (a) To create an ICT environment that is aligned with the mission and work 
programmes of the Secretariat; 

 (b) To enable United Nations staff and their stakeholders to connect and 
share knowledge anytime, anywhere;  

 (c) To allow ICT resources to be deployed and utilized efficiently. 

16. The strategy consolidated work undertaken after the Chief Information 
Technology Officer post was created in 2006 and set out the following four priority 
areas for action: 

 (a) Development of the ICT management framework; 

 (b) Delivery of a resource management programme; 

 (c) Delivery of a knowledge management programme; 

 (d) Delivery of an infrastructure management programme. 

17. The strategy included wording to the effect that by harnessing the power of 
ICT, the Organization could accelerate the realization of its mission and meet 
growing commitments in an increasingly knowledge-based and interconnected 
global society. It did not, however, include a unifying vision for ICT for addressing 
existing business needs or transforming service delivery. United Nations senior 
managers were aware of the existence of the strategy and could list the four activity 
areas, but the strategy was not well understood throughout the Secretariat, nor was it 
viewed as a driver of investment, reform or day-to-day activity. 

18. The Board identified the following key limitations of the strategy: 

 (a) The Board would expect any major ICT-enabled business change to be a 
significant element of an ICT strategy; instead, the United Nations single largest 
ICT-enabled project (the enterprise resource planning system, Umoja, which is 
projected to cost well over $300 million) was deemed to warrant only a one-page 
case study and one bullet point in the strategy document published in November 
2010, which is like equating Umoja, in terms of importance, with the 
implementation of IP telephony or instant messaging. Additional references to 
Umoja are contained in the report of the Secretary-General on investing in 
information and communications technology submitted to the General Assembly in 
2008 (A/62/793), but none reflect the importance of Umoja to the Organization; 



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 14 
 

 (b) The issue of information security (for example, in terms of the approach 
of the United Nations to securing its strategically important information and 
protecting it from misuse) was given insufficient priority and formed only a minor 
component of the infrastructure management programme; 

 (c) Insufficient recognition was given in the strategy to the size and major 
contribution of peacekeeping activities (which are estimated to account for around 
75 per cent of the total ICT budget and 68 per cent of the Organization’s ICT staff), 
or to how harmonization and economies of scale could be achieved by harnessing 
the potential of this capacity and expenditure. 

19. The strategy failed to give sufficient consideration to these three significant 
factors. It also failed to align the implementation of Umoja, address the lack of 
cohesive information security across the Secretariat or establish a means to harness 
the largest United Nations business area in a corporate way. 

20. The Administration agreed with the Board’s recommendation that it 
develop a new ICT strategy, including a United Nations-wide information 
strategy and an enterprise architecture framework, that describes how 
information and technology will support and provide benefits for the 
Organization. Such a strategy needs to be consistent with United Nations 
objectives and realistic ambitions for transformation. The Administration then 
needs to make progress in the implementation of the ICT strategy in parallel 
with any agreed reforms to the Organization’s operating model, culture and 
approach. 

21. The Administration informed the Board that it fully accepts the need to update 
and reformulate its ICT strategy. The new strategy has to be aligned with the 
implementation of Umoja and with a broader business support strategy, which 
defines the service delivery model of the Organization. Reformulating an ICT 
strategy for an organization as complex and decentralized as the United Nations 
Secretariat is a challenging task that will require an orderly process, as well as a 
fundamental review, which includes the following steps: settling on a business 
support strategy, assessing the current situation of ICT within the Organization, 
developing and implementing a plan for consulting with major stakeholders, 
developing the strategy itself (and a plan for its implementation) and strengthening 
the functions of the institutional mechanisms for governance, implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation. 

22. In this context, the Administration has, as a preliminary step, identified the 
following elements, which might be part of the reformulated strategy: 

 (a) Define a sourcing strategy that will allow the repurposing of existing 
resources to use ICT to enable and deliver change. This element shall contemplate 
the alignment of ICT with the business support strategy in the Organization, placing 
ICT in a leading role as a change driver and as an enabler of programme delivery; 

 (b) Define an ICT architecture strategy, in other words an ICT-enabled 
business re-engineering component of the support processes and application 
architecture in the Organization, to be centred on Umoja. The key will be to 
leverage the investment made in Umoja to improve and harmonize the existing and 
fragmented ICT landscape and to provide business solutions in support of efficient 
service-delivery models; 



 A/67/651
 

15 12-65952 
 

 (c) Define a revised set of policies and standards to be enforced across the 
Organization, including in the peacekeeping area, to deal with ICT-related activities, 
in particular urgent matters such as information security, application systems control 
and audit trails. 
 

  Funding of the strategy 
 

23. The ICT strategy was accompanied by a funding proposal that was presented 
to the General Assembly in the report of the Secretary-General on the status of 
implementation of the ICT strategy (A/65/491). The proposal included a request for 
$140.6 million for four projects. 

24. Although the strategy was approved by the General Assembly, no additional 
funding was granted; instead, it was to be delivered within existing resources. The 
Office of Information and Communications Technology, however, maintains that a 
proposed budget of $117.7 million for the biennium 2012-2013 leaves it 
underfunded to deliver the level of change and capability planned under the 
approved strategy. 

25. The funding base of the Office represents around 7 per cent of the estimated 
total of United Nations ICT funding and is prepared according to major activity 
(strategic management or operations), funding type (regular budget or 
extrabudgetary resources) and posts, by category (Professional, General Service and 
others). This approach to funding and budgeting does not provide the General 
Assembly with sufficient transparency to allow it to distinguish operational from 
strategic requirements, nor does it adequately differentiate between fixed and 
variable costs, for example, between licensing and maintenance costs and data 
centre fixed costs that provide important services at Headquarters. 

26. Importantly, the United Nations ICT budget is arranged so that each 
department and office has its own budget. Consolidated management information on 
this budget and spending is not routinely prepared, which prevents the assessment, 
monitoring and prioritization of ICT funding across the United Nations. 
Consolidated management information on ICT would lead to greater transparency 
and allow appropriate challenges to be made on resources, risks and priorities 
associated with transformation, improvement and change, frameworks, policies and 
standards, and operational services, including associated fixed and variable costs. 

27. The Board also notes that there is limited visibility of ICT expenditure 
throughout the Secretariat because the United Nations chart of accounts and 
supporting financial system do not enable the costs of ICT activities to be routinely 
tracked. For example, software licence and maintenance fees for Umoja are 
classified, for budget purposes, under “supplies, materials, furniture and 
equipment”, and costs associated with the primary data centre are recorded under 
“facilities”. The United Nations is therefore unable to ensure that its investment in 
ICT is being used effectively and efficiently. For this reason, the Board cannot 
provide any further analysis of the Organization’s ICT expenditure. The 
Administration itself has acknowledged the absence of useful financial information 
on ICT, stating in the report of the Secretary-General on the status of 
implementation of the ICT strategy that the inability to easily monitor and report on 
the Secretariat-wide ICT component of the budget, whether proposed, approved or 
appropriated, is a serious flaw in the existing budget process that significantly limits 
the effective global management of ICT (A/65/491, para. 94). 



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 16 
 

28. The Board has already noted that higher-level controls, such as routine and 
regular financial management information, are not available to managers at all 
levels to enable active monitoring and control in relation to expenditure (see A/67/5 
(Vol. I)). The Board’s view is that accountability is less demonstrable given that 
managers do not have the tools to assess and challenge performance and that 
effective financial and operational management is compromised as decision-making 
is less well informed. 

29. The Administration agreed with the Board’s recommendation that it 
review its arrangements for capturing information on ICT expenditure with a 
view to enabling more effective monitoring of costs and improved decision-
making on future expenditure. 

30. The Administration agreed with the Board’s recommendation that it 
clearly specify how the chart of accounts in Umoja will enable ICT expenditure 
to be captured and monitored effectively. In addition, it should consider 
whether there are any options for improving management information on ICT 
expenditure that could be pursued prior to the implementation of Umoja. 

31. The Administration agreed with the Board’s recommendation that, in 
order to enable greater consistency and transparency with regard to ICT 
funding and budgets and allow better management of costs and effective 
prioritization, the Controller require that proposed ICT budgets set out (a) the 
cost of running day-to-day services; (b) the cost of licences and maintenance 
costs for existing systems; (c) costs related to upgrading existing service 
delivery (e.g. to improve security); and (d) new costs, including strategic 
requirements. 

32. The Administration agreed with the Board’s recommendation that the 
entities, offices and programmes comprising the United Nations prioritize ICT 
funding to ensure that the right balance of attention is given to transformation, 
improvement and leadership, frameworks and policies, and operational 
services.  

33. The Administration informed the Board that the new chart of accounts that will 
be put in place with the implementation of Umoja will allow the Administration to 
clearly programme and record ICT resources and expenditures. Moreover, the 
Administration intends to strengthen the role of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology to monitor ICT resources in the Organization by 
enforcing the reporting responsibilities of senior managers on ICT resources and 
projects, as reflected in their compacts with the Secretary-General.  
 
 

 B. Business transformation 
 
 

34. The United Nations is a complex organization comprising multiple entities and 
offices and employing different ways of operating across the globe. Many of its 
entities and offices have a high degree of autonomy. The Organization is currently in 
the midst of several large major business transformation projects, including Umoja, 
the International Public Sector Accounting Standards and the global field support 
strategy. In this context, the challenges it faces in delivering further information 
technology-enabled transformation have increased. 



 A/67/651
 

17 12-65952 
 

35. The implementation of an ICT strategy involves aligning the often conflicting 
aspirations and interests of a wide variety of stakeholders across the Secretariat to a 
single vision and set of priorities. Senior management within an organization needs 
to be clear about priorities and desired outcomes, and there needs to be coherent and 
effective communication on accountability and specific responsibilities. 

36. The Board has identified preconditions and circumstances common to global 
organizations that have successfully transformed services and operations.2 These 
include: 

 (a) A clear vision and business model; 

 (b) Ownership and leadership by the head of the organization or designate 
when it comes to change; 

 (c) An organizational structure that can readily adapt to change; 

 (d) Good corporate data and intelligence on a wide range of matters that are 
important for effective and efficient operations; 

 (e) Funding and governance mechanisms that support change; 

 (f) A focus on cultural challenges and how to gain buy-in from the 
organization;  

 (g) Clear communication on the need for change and expected behaviours; 

 (h) Effective planning, organization and risk management at all levels. 

37. The Board notes that the conditions and circumstances of the United Nations 
are currently inconsistent with those enjoyed by global organizations that have 
successfully undergone transformation. In that light, the Board questions whether a 
sufficient and grounded assessment has been undertaken of United Nations 
conditions, the business environment, ambitions and readiness for global change. 
For example, basic corporate information is absent in areas such as funding and 
staffing. The Board further notes that this assessment is a necessary precursor of a 
renewed strategy and is a key requirement to reduce the risks that are inherent to 
global reform (for example, the global roll-out of an enterprise resource planning 
system). Such risks will include, but are not limited to, very substantial business 
change and accountability risks. 

38. The Board has already noted that there has been no coherent overview, 
framework or planned agenda for the various business transformation projects of the 
United Nations to deliver the right strategic long-term outcome for the Organization 
(see A/67/5 (Vol. I)). The Board found that there management had been unable to 
articulate to the Organization a coherent vision for change or to engage with the 
Organization as a whole instead of on a single-project basis. This approach has 
resulted in the business not preparing properly to take on the changes required, 
resulting in the risk that the objectives of the projects will not be achieved. 

39. The Administration agreed with the Board’s recommendation that as a 
necessary precursor to any new ICT strategy, and to reduce the substantial 
risks associated with the implementation of a global enterprise resource 

__________________ 

 2  Global organizations that have successfully transformed their operations and exhibit these 
characteristics include multinational oil, beverage and chemical companies. Many other 
examples exist.  



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 18 
 

planning system, it clearly document those elements of the culture, custom, 
practices and processes, as well as key cost and performance information, that 
may affect the achievability of a global ICT transformation in the United 
Nations. Using the results of this review, the Administration should define the 
Organization’s overall objectives and specify realistic ambitions for global 
service delivery, consistent processes and a unified Organization. 

40. The Administration informed the Board that placing Umoja at the centre of the 
ICT-enabled business re-engineering component of the ICT strategy will facilitate 
the documenting of all the elements defined by the Board in paragraph 39 above, as 
the deployment of Umoja will require the harmonization, integration and automation 
of business processes globally.  

41. The Administration agreed with the Board’s recommendation that it 
recognize the changes in responsibilities and operating model across the 
Secretariat that are needed to deliver any new ICT strategy and accept the 
responsibility of senior management as a whole to deliver Organization-wide 
changes to support the Chief Information Technology Officer. 

42. The Administration informed the Board that a plan to review the current 
operating model and identify opportunities to realize further benefits through 
changes to the service delivery model was presented and approved by the Under-
Secretary-General for Management and process owners in October 2012. As a result, 
it was agreed that the process owners will have the ultimate responsibility for 
identifying and implementing opportunities to improve the service delivery model 
across the Secretariat. In addition, a methodology and timetable involving all 
relevant entities in the system were discussed and approved to identify and prioritize 
opportunities, and a workshop attended by process owners, senior representatives 
from the United Nations Office at Vienna, the United Nations Office at Geneva, the 
United Nations Office at Nairobi, the regional commissions, departments at 
Headquarters and executive officers was held in New York in November 2012 to 
discuss the methodology and activities related to the development of a future service 
delivery model for the Secretariat. 

43. The Administration informed the Board that the Secretariat would submit a 
report on global service delivery models to the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth 
session in 2013.  

44. The chief information officer is a key individual in any organization. He or she 
is accountable for achieving major transformation projects from concept to delivery 
and operation. However, transformation cannot be achieved solely through the work 
of an individual. Collective ownership and a shared commitment to transformation 
and new businesses processes is required across an organization; without such 
ownership and commitment, new information technology-enabled business systems 
cannot be successful. Senior management leadership is needed to enable and support 
the chief information officer because any major business transformation needs to be 
led from the top of the organization. 

45.  The chief information officer needs to apply, and help an organization apply, 
the disciplines required to manage transformation correctly. Most organizations call 
these ICT leaders “chief information officers”. Information technology and its 
systems have become so important that the chief information officer has come to be 



 A/67/651
 

19 12-65952 
 

viewed in many organizations as critical to formulating strategic goals for the 
organization, understanding costs and managing risks. 

46. The chief information officer is often supported by a chief technology officer 
who focuses on technology issues (rather than business issues). The chief 
technology officer would normally have in-depth technical knowledge and oversee 
the development of new technologies. He or she is more likely to focus on 
exploiting proprietary technologies, whereas the chief information officer has a 
more strategic outlook and is focused on the business and technical needs of running 
the organization. 

47. The roles of chief information officer and chief technology officer are separate 
but complementary and cover related aspects of ICT. These aspects include:  
(a) business transformation, innovation and development, and change;  
(b) development and enforcement of organization-wide guidance, frameworks, 
standards and policies, covering information and systems; and (c) operational ICT 
services (data centres, networks, applications, computer desktops, etc.). 

48. It is the Board’s view that the decision to designate and describe the most 
senior information officer at the United Nations as “Chief Information Technology 
Officer” raised expectations about the nature of the role and encouraged behaviours 
that are consistent with an operational view of the ICT function. Although the 
creation of the post of Chief Information Technology Officer could be considered 
just a merging of titles, the decision to use that title did not facilitate the 
incumbent’s attempts to act as an agent of transformational change across the 
Secretariat. 

49. The Administration informed the Board that the United Nations Secretariat 
includes the word “information”, with different qualifiers, under different job 
networks and families, for example in “information systems and communications 
technology” (ICT-related), “public information specialists” (public information-
related), “library and information specialists” (library-related), etc. When originally 
establishing the post of Chief Information Technology Officer, the Administration 
thought that including the word “technology” would reduce the possibility of 
confusion that the generic title “chief information officer” might give rise to.  

50. The Administration agreed with the Board’s recommendation that it  
(a) emphasize the strategic priorities of the Chief Information Technology 
Officer by redefining the functions of the role and changing the title;  
(b) evaluate whether there is a need to appoint a chief technology officer or 
designate an existing post to assist the chief information officer in operational 
matters; and (c) clearly define and communicate the different roles across the 
Secretariat, in particular the scope and remit of the renamed chief information 
officer with regard to strategy and business transformation. 

51. The Administration fully agrees with the Board that the renamed chief 
information officer should play a lead role in achieving major transformation 
projects from concept to delivery and operation. This is precisely the kind of role 
that is contemplated in the preliminary considerations of a future ICT strategy for 
the Organization. In addition, the Administration agrees with the Board that the 
chief information officer should be assisted in his or her functions by a chief 
technology officer, who would be responsible exclusively for technology and 
operational issues (not strategic issues) within the Organization. The chief 



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 20 
 

information officer would remain under the direct supervision of the Under-
Secretary-General for Management, as decided by the General Assembly in its 
resolution 66/246.  

52. The Board is also of the view that a greater strategic role could have been 
fulfilled by the Office of Information and Communications Technology by creating 
an overall coherent view, framework or planned agenda. For example, by assessing 
the design of Umoja against a strategic framework, decisions could have been made 
early on to avoid costly mistakes and understand the full impact of integration. For 
example: 

 (a) There is currently an enterprise identity management system that is 
managed by the Office, and there is also an identity repository being developed for 
Umoja. There is a lack of clarity between the Office and the Umoja team about 
which of these systems is the de facto identity management system for the United 
Nations. A decision in this regard could have been made earlier and the impact (in 
terms of resources and effort to reach a solution) could have been included in the 
project plan; 

 (b) There has been insufficient engagement between the Office and the 
Umoja team, which means that whole-life costs may not have been assessed 
properly. The Office is a key stakeholder in the ongoing management of Umoja and 
in the decommissioning of legacy applications and will have insight into, and direct 
interest in, whole-life ICT costs. 

53. Two other aspects of the United Nations operating model that have had 
important implications for the culture and positioning of the Chief Information 
Technology Officer and the Office of Information and Communications Technology 
are the following: 

 (a) Investment environment. Funding for the Office is distributed unevenly 
across the Secretariat. Significant funding is available to the Department of Field 
Support and various entities in offices away from Headquarters receive funding 
from sources other than centralized funds (see figure II). This could result in the 
unintentional creation of a hierarchy in terms of the importance of the ICT function 
and could undermine the aim of strengthening the Office while weakening the 
ability to create greater harmonization; 

 (b) Relationship between business and ICT. Many of the business areas to 
which the Office seeks to deliver services at Headquarters run their own ICT 
services with their own ICT resources. This creates a vicious cycle whereby the staff 
of the Office do not develop the skills and capability to service this customer base 
properly or professionally and the users enjoy an environment where they feel they 
can operate by delivering quickly and flexibly without the corporate overhead of a 
global organization slowing them down. 
 
 



 A/67/651
 

21 12-65952 
 

Office of Information and 
Commmunications 
Technology, $54.0

Department of 
Management, $16.1

Department of Political 
Affairs, $12.8

Department for General 
Assembly and Conference 

Management, $12.0

Other offices at HQ, $33.8

Offices Away from HQ, 
$39.5

Regional Commissions and 
Tribunals, $22.3

Department of Field 
Support, Peacekeeping and 
Special Political Missions, 

$583.9

Total = $774 million

  Figure II 
Estimated annual ICT budget of entities of the Secretariat, 2010 (millions of 
United States dollars) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

54. Overall, these factors have served to weaken the authority of the Chief 
Information Technology Officer and the Office and have contributed to limited 
progress in the implementation of the ICT strategy. These aspects should be 
addressed before any new ICT strategy is formulated. Even within a collaborative 
business model, the following should be kept in mind: 

 (a) A chief information officer must have the requisite authority and be 
supported by clear management processes and messages so that it is clear that the 
United Nations is seeking to be a more corporate-minded and integrated 
organization; 

 (b) Accountability should rest with the area where the benefits of success 
and consequences of failure of an initiative will be felt most, as well as with those 
that retain overarching responsibility. 

55. The Administration agreed with the Board’s recommendation that it plan 
for any parallel business and ICT activities associated with a new strategy to be 
supportive of the implementation of Umoja and not conflict with its objectives. 



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 22 
 

56. The Administration agreed with the Board’s recommendation that, in 
relation to ICT, it define the leadership and executive roles, competencies and 
management effort that should be directed to three distinct aspects of ICT 
delivery, namely: (a) transformative change, innovation and leadership across 
the Secretariat; (b) the design and enforcement of corporate guidance, 
frameworks, policies and standards; and (c) operational services. 
 

  Possible framework for business transformation 
 

57. In examining the implementation of the ICT strategy and other major business 
transformation projects, such as Umoja, the Board has noted that no assessment has 
been made of the balance to be struck between activities or processes that should be 
strongly controlled from the centre and those for which greater operational freedoms 
and delegated authorities could be given. Such an assessment is particularly 
necessary in organizations that do not operate as a single homogenous business but 
rather as a range of individual business units and offices with varying degrees of 
autonomy, different funding streams and different governance arrangements. 

58. The Board considers that any new ICT strategy, and indeed any major business 
transformation, would have a greater chance of success in an environment where 
there is greater clarity about those initiatives and activities that need to be centrally 
controlled and those business operations and activities that could be given greater 
delegated authority. Tighter central control might be needed when (a) it is important 
that a consistent approach be adopted across the organization, for example, with 
regard to an enterprise resource planning system or a critical activity such as ICT 
security, and (b) there is clearly value to be gained, for example, with regard to 
certain categories of procurement. Less control from the centre may be appropriate 
in areas where individual business units are delivering locally specific activities and 
tasks, for example, in aspects of humanitarian aid that are specific to a given 
location.  

59. An illustration of how this concept might work in the United Nations is 
provided in figure III, which is offered to aid thinking on this issue rather than as a 
prescriptive way forward. The Board, while recognizing that there is an existing 
system of delegated authority, is trying to illustrate that there are more fundamental 
structural issues that need to be understood and addressed before major changes or 
transformations will have a good chance of successful implementation. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 A/67/651
 

23 12-65952 
 

 

U
N

 H
ea

dq
ua

rt
er

s

Pe
ac

ek
ee

pi
ng

O
th

er
 fi

el
d 

op
er

at
io

ns

R
eg

io
na

l C
om

m
is

si
on

s

O
A

H
s

Tr
ib

un
al

s

Measurement of:

• Cost
• Risk
• Performance

To identify issues and 
plan necessary action

UN-WIDE OBJECTIVES 
(Tighter central control)

For example, activities that require:
• Centrally determined objectives and strategy
• Consistency, such as corporate information (e.g. core 

finance and HR records)
• Strong central oversight of risk to the UN’s reputation

BUSINESS OPERATIONS
(Potentially less central control)

For example,
• Delivery of business unit objectives
• Core operations (e.g. disaster relief)
• Location specific activities (e.g. mission specific field 

operations)

UN-wide Initiatives*

* Umoja as a sample UN-wide initiative * Security as a recommended UN-wide initiative

Requires collaboration to be a success. It needs:
• Security to be designated at the most senior level 
to signal the importance, drive behaviour and 
protect the credibility of the organisation.
• HR to set security policies and procedures for 
staff, including consequences of non-compliance.
• IT to ensure right policy, tools (network security, 
malware protection) and monitoring are in place.

Requires many people to drive the business 
transformation and align people, process and 
technology with business vision and strategy. It 
needs:
• Strong, senior business ownership.
• Finance, procurement and HR to drive change 
processes and behaviours from the centre with clear 
guidance, training and compliance regimes.
• IT to design and implement supporting technology.

  Figure III 
Business implications for United Nations-wide initiatives 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 C. Governance 
 
 

60. Effective governance of ICT can assist in the appropriate management and use 
of ICT to support the achievement of an organization’s aims and objectives. ICT 
governance covers the people, systems, processes and funding that direct, approve, 
control and assure an organization’s ICT. This includes the creation of clear lines of 
accountability and authority. 

61. The ICT strategy set out a governance framework that was intended to 
describe the lines of authority, accountability and teamwork among the bodies and 
units that, together, manage ICT at the Secretariat. In addition to there being 
working and management coordination groups, some key governance committees 
exist, namely: 

 (a) The Information and Communications Technology Executive Committee, 
which was designed to decide the overall ICT strategy and priorities for the 
Secretariat and optimize the investment of the organization in ICT, ensuring that it 
continued to be aligned with the substantive programmes of the Secretariat; 



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 24 
 

 

Cross membership on
both committees

Formulation Advisory Decision-making

Local ICT committees

Formed for each UN department or 
office. The committees meet 
periodically to discuss business needs 
in their area that may require an ICT 
solution. Each of the committees is 
chaired by a member of staff from 
the respective department and 
includes the local ICT chief as an ex-
officio member.

ICT Advisory Group (ICT-AG)

Responsible for providing advice 
and input on major ICT activities 
and issues to the Chief Information 
Technology Officer. The Group 
comprises director level 
representatives from each 
Department and Office in the 
Secretariat.

ICT Executive Committee (ICT-EC)

Highest-level decision making 
body on ICT matters in the UN 
Secretariat. Responsible for 
guiding implementation of ICT 
Strategy and chaired by the 
Deputy Secretary-General. 
Membership of 13 Under-
Secretary-Generals, and the Chief 
Information Technology Officer. 

Programme Working Groups

Responsible for maintaining 
strategic direction of ICT Strategy’s 
three strategic programmes: 
knowledge management, resource 
management and infrastructure 
management. Also responsible for 
reviewing proposed ICT initiatives 
and monitoring implementation, 
and for providing policy advice and 
programme suggestions to the Chief 
Information Technology Officer.

ICT Management Coordination 
Group (ICT-MCG)

Responsible for providing 
guidance on ICT strategic 
programmes and other 
Secretariat-wide activities. The 
Group is chaired by the Chief 
Information Technology Officer. 
Membership of the group 
consists of heads and senior staff 
of ICT units in departments and 
offices across the UN Secretariat.

AG and MCG Chairs sit 
on both committees

The ICT-AG and ICT-MCG review the 
materials, both the business risk and 
merit, and provide recommendations 
and reservations to ICT-EC and CITO

Both Local ICT Committees and the 
Working Groups prioritise projects and  

tactical issues for review, along with 
business case specifics (if applicable)

CITO and the ICT-EC endorse 
proposals along with a funding 

mechanism and, if appropriate, a 
chargeback methodology to provide 

a lifecycle approach  for 
continued support

Chief Information Technology 
Officer (CITO)

Responsible for management and 
oversight of Office of Information 
and Communications Technology; 
directing the UN Secretariat’s ICT 
Strategy and programmes; 
implementing large enterprise ICT 
initiatives; and establishing 
organisation-wide ICT policies. 
Reports to the Under-Secretary-
General for Management, but 
previously reported to Deputy 
Secretary-General.

CITO sits on ICT-EC

 (b) The Information and Communications Technology Advisory Group, 
which was designed to represent the user community and provide advice on the 
implementation of the ICT strategy and on Organization-wide issues;  

 (c) Local ICT committees, which were designed to address local issues and 
raise business needs that may require an ICT solution. 

62. The planned ICT governance process, the roles of the various component 
bodies and the expected levels of interaction between them are summarized in  
figure IV. 

 

  Figure IV 
Planned information and communications technology governance process of the 
United Nations 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

63. Over the past two years, the ICT Executive Committee has met on four 
occasions. However, the terms of reference of the Committee indicate that over that 
period it should have met on eight occasions. The most recent meeting was held on 
11 April 2012. The agenda for that meeting included only two substantive issues: a 
consultancy-led technology briefing and a briefing on knowledge management 
solutions. The Board considers that there is no evidence that the ITC Executive 
Committee has been routinely considering the kinds of issues that would be 
expected of the top-level decision-making body on ICT matters in the Secretariat, 
including strategically important matters such as the review of periodic investment 
profiles, in-depth risk analyses, including trend perspectives, and the delivery of 
value from ICT. 



 A/67/651
 

25 12-65952 
 

64. Similarly, the ICT Advisory Group has not operated effectively as a strategic 
ICT governance body for the United Nations. For example, the ICT Advisory Group 
was given the ICT strategy as a finished product. It had no time to provide input and 
its understanding of the business and its needs was not utilized. In March 2011, the 
Chair of the ICT Advisory Group wrote to the Chief Information Technology Officer 
setting out his concerns on the role and effectiveness of the ICT Advisory Group. He 
proposed revised terms of reference, based on the “control objectives for 
information and related technology” framework, which is an internationally 
recognized ICT governance framework devised by the Information Systems Audit 
and Control Association. Subsequently, discussions were held between the Chief 
Information Technology Officer and the Chair of the ICT Advisory Group, but no 
change was made to the Group’s terms of reference. 

65. Local ICT committees were designed to address local ICT issues and provide a 
mechanism to identify cross-cutting strategic and operational issues that resonate 
across the Secretariat. If appropriate, these issues were to be forwarded up to the 
ICT Advisory Group and the ICT Executive Committee. The Office of Information 
and Communications Technology maintains no substantive records on the operation 
of the local ICT committees. As recently as April 2012 the ICT Executive 
Committee requested departments without a local ICT committee to form one; the 
present review has determined that many departments are still operating without 
one. It is therefore difficult to conclude that collectively these groups have fulfilled 
their United Nations-wide function to consolidate operations and forward local 
issues up to the more senior ICT governance groups.  

66. Beyond the operations of each committee layer, the overall committee 
structure as implemented blended key functions such as consultation, information 
sharing, advisory and decision-making. At the levels of the ICT Executive 
Committee and the ICT Advisory Group, the basic mechanics of meeting 
management and appropriate quality of decision-making material and review time 
were also not sufficient. On occasions, decisions were made on the basis of 
PowerPoint presentations with a single day of notice. 

67. The Board considers that the weaknesses and issues it has identified in the 
governance and delivery of the ICT strategy mirror the issues and weaknesses it has 
seen in other United Nations major business transformation programmes. For 
example, the Board has already noted the absence of clear and effective governance 
and accountability arrangements for major business transformation programmes 
(A/67/5 (Vol. I)). The Board found a lack of clarity about roles, accountabilities and 
reporting lines, which meant that governance arrangements were not always 
effective, weakening management’s oversight of, and accountability for, the cost-
effective use of resources. 

68. The Administration agreed with the Board’s recommendation that it 
develop a fit-for-purpose governance framework to oversee the strategic 
development of ICT across the United Nations. This governance framework 
should clearly set out roles, accountabilities and responsibilities and ensure that 
decision-making bodies operate distinctly from consultative and advisory 
forums. 

69. The Administration informed the Board that it foresees a governance structure 
whereby some decisions are taken centrally and others delegated locally. Such a 
governance structure would be directly linked to the Organization’s business model 



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 26 
 

and the information technology architecture. The challenge remains for the 
Secretariat to clearly identify which activities should be centrally managed, which 
responsibilities should be delegated to the local level and, furthermore, which 
activities could possibly be consolidated and handled at a duty station other than 
New York (e.g., Vienna or Nairobi). In addition, this type of governance structure 
will require clear and effective accountability arrangements, clarity over roles and 
reporting lines and effective monitoring, evaluation and compliance instruments. 

70. The Administration noted that the Secretariat does have some assets with 
which it will be able to strengthen this governance structure, including the 
following: (a) the existing key governance committees, which could play a very 
important role if organized according to the appropriate reporting lines and 
accountability structures; (b) the requirement for all ICT budget proposals to be 
submitted through the Office of Information and Communications Technology and 
in accordance with the project management frameworks developed by the Office, 
which helps facilitate the alignment of all departments and offices with an ICT 
strategy; (c) the inclusion, since 2010, of an ICT indicator and the resulting 
acceptable levels of compliance, both in 2010 and 2011, in the senior managers’ 
compacts with the Secretary-General; (d) the designation process by which all 
officials who are to be assigned ICT responsibilities Secretariat-wide are cleared by 
the Office before commencing their duties; and (e) the Chief Information 
Technology Officer is already a member of the Management Committee, which is 
responsible for, among other things, considering internal reform and management-
related initiatives and issues, including change management processes, requiring 
strategic direction from the Secretary-General. This will allow the Officer to play a 
lead role in achieving major transformation projects. The challenge remains to use 
these assets to build a strong and effective governance structure for ICT matters. 
 
 

 D. People 
 
 

71. In modern organizations, the people involved in ICT will include change 
specialists, business strategists and analysts, as well as those with more traditional 
roles: the systems architects, software engineers, service managers and database 
administrators. ICT professionals will be responsible for the continuous design of 
operating models and business processes to take advantage of rapidly evolving 
technology. Successful organizations will typically rely on these individuals for 
strategic decision-making and designing new services, not just for applications 
development and the day-to-day running of operating systems. 

72. The staff profile of the Office of Information and Communications Technology 
for the biennium 2012-2013 shows that approximately 82 per cent of staff occupy 
posts in operational roles. The Strategic Management Service, which is one of five 
major groups within the Office, is responsible for a number of activities, including 
those related to policy, architecture and standards. Until March 2012, it was also 
responsible for business relationship management. As noted previously, the position 
of Head of the Strategic Management Service (classified at the D-1 level) has been 
vacant since April 2011. The fact that the Office has a predominantly operational 
profile and that the post of Head of the Service continues to be vacant means that 
the Office is (a) significantly hampered in its ability to execute the full range of its 
strategic mandate, which is to set the overall strategic ICT direction for the 
Organization, to plan and coordinate Secretariat-wide ICT activities and to provide 



 A/67/651
 

27 12-65952 
 

enterprise systems and infrastructure; (b) lacking in specific capability (for example, 
to review complex budget submissions and niche technical solutions, evaluating the 
associated risks); and (c) focused on running ICT operations rather than on leading 
change or innovation.  

73. The Office of Information and Communications Technology has a strong focus 
on the retention of in-house capability. The Board acknowledges the potential 
strengths of this arrangement but also notes that if it is not accompanied by adequate 
turnover or continuing professional development across the Office, it could have a 
negative impact in terms of maintaining skills updated and on the broader ICT 
capability. 

74. The Office’s resourcing model has 161 posts (funded from the regular budget, 
extrabudgetary funds and other sources) and 186 contractors sourced from six main 
suppliers. All ICT entities need to supplement their permanent and temporary 
workforce with specialist skills to meet specific needs and, on occasion, they need 
additional resources to meet peak workloads. The Board has not reviewed the 
Office’s resourcing model and has not seen a strategic workforce model but is of the 
view that the Office’s short-to-medium term workforce should evolve to deliver a 
more strategic remit. As part of this evolution, consideration should be given to the 
most appropriate use of contractors and of temporary and permanent staff, based on 
an assessment of the skills and capacity required by the Office to meet its 
objectives. 

75. The Board notes that there has not been a formal evaluation of workforce 
morale within the Office, but informal assessments by management are that morale 
is low. This may have an impact on service delivery and short-to-medium term 
sustainability. 

76. The Administration agreed with the Board’s recommendation that, over 
time, it redirect existing resources of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology to more strategic activities and that it consider the 
use of alternative sourcing arrangements for day-to-day ICT support services. 

77. The Administration noted that a significant proportion of Office staff has been 
devoted to operational roles, to the detriment of strategic responsibilities. While this 
situation might have weakened the strategic remit of the Office, it also constitutes a 
strength upon which the Office can build. The increased focus on operations has 
allowed the Office to position itself as an effective client-oriented entity in the 
Secretariat and to demonstrate significant success in the implementation of very 
important projects, such as those related to the challenges posed by the capital 
master plan, including the provision of support for the relocation of staff and the 
migration of telephones in 16 different buildings, the successful transfer of all 
infrastructure and applications to a new primary data centre and the establishment of 
a secondary data centre, among others.  

78. The Administration notes that the challenge remains to adapt the Office’s 
workforce in the short to medium term so that it can deliver on a more strategic 
remit and to find the right balance with regard to areas of work to be covered by the 
Office’s permanent staff and areas to be covered by contractors and temporary staff. 
The Administration will address these key issues in the context of the sourcing 
strategy referred to in paragraph 22, defining how to release resources from the day-
to-day operations to value-added services. 



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 28 
 

 E. Service management and technology 
 
 

79. The Board has considered specific elements of service management and 
technology undertaken by the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology to understand the professional capability of this group. This is because 
the operational performance of the Office is fundamental to its credibility in the 
Secretariat, and therefore to its ability to execute its strategic and transformational 
agenda. The Board has not examined the potential for operational improvements or 
other efficiencies associated with the Office. 

80. Service-level agreements for Office services are established and reflect four 
distinct levels of ICT support (and service-level agreements are indicators of high-
functioning ICT groups). However, in spite of these agreements, senior management 
has expressed uncertainty as to which services were supported by the Office and 
which were funded by their own entity.  

81. Until March 2012, the Strategic Management Service of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology was responsible for business 
relationship management. As already noted, the post of Head of the Service has been 
vacant for 18 months, which has meant that engagement between the Office and the 
business has been suboptimal, essentially because the business has not had a formal 
mechanism through which it could interact with the Office, which addresses 
strategic and high-level operational issues, funding or other effectiveness issues. 
This “intelligent client” function has remained underdeveloped. In addition, because 
the post of Head of Service also carries responsibility for information security 
matters within the Office, it is likely that information security has not been 
considered a priority (see paras. 93-101). 

82. The Administration agreed with the Board’s recommendation that 
management develop an “intelligent client” function for Secretariat-wide ICT 
and within United Nations departments to effectively articulate business needs 
and provide a channel for the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology, local ICT committees and business areas to improve services. 

83. The Office of Information and Communications Technology operates the 
service desk for Headquarters and maintains basic information on the performance 
of this service. Contact with this service resulted in 5,375 service requests between 
January and March 2012. Over the same period, 4,396 requests were fulfilled and 92 
were cancelled. Although these statistics reflect rolling totals (for example, a request 
made on 31 December 2011 could be fulfilled on 1 January 2012), they reveal that 
around 20 per cent of service requests were unfulfilled.  

84. Nonetheless, the Board noted that business users consistently gave positive 
feedback on the Office of Information and Communications Technology and other 
ICT staff with regard to the discharge of their operational functions and their 
commitment to service quality. This was particularly true for the management of the 
ICT components of the capital master plan and the implementation of IP telephony. 

85. Throughout the United Nations, the profile of technology is varied and has 
evolved in response to historical priorities and funding regimes. United Nations 
Headquarters has an outdated and varied technical environment (for example, some 
staff are using Windows XP and Microsoft Office 2003), which often does not meet 
the ever-growing expectations of users. 



 A/67/651
 

29 12-65952 
 

 

Infrastructure Multiple 
infrastructures

Servers, Wide Area Networks, Local Area Networks

Infrastructure support 
provided under SLA 

(levels 1-4)

Enterprise 
applications (8)

Other 
applications  
(100s) Local service level agreements

Multiple 
applications

Desktop software (OICT)

Multiple desktops 
(provided/funded by different 
business areas)

Desktop 
software

Desktops 
(provided/funded by 

different business areas)

Offices away from Headquarters 
including Regional Commissions

Office of Information and Communications Technology to set strategy, 
policies, principles and standards

Multiple 
infrastructures

Multiple applications

Field support

Desktop 
software

United Nations Headquarters

Desktops 
(provided/funded by 

different business areas)

Office of Information and Communications 
Technology responsibility

86. The Office of Information and Communications Technology is responsible for 
managing and supporting eight software applications at Headquarters. Because they 
have a wide reach, these applications are known as enterprise applications. In 
addition, the Office supports around 30 other applications based on Lotus Notes. 
The overwhelming majority of the 1,994 applications estimated to be in use across 
the Secretariat are therefore not managed by the Office. 

87. Individual departments are responsible for buying desktops and their own 
software applications with funds from their own budgets (see figure V). There is no 
corporate oversight of expenditure for such items. In addition, due to local 
priorities, departments often choose to delay upgrading their systems and redirect 
ICT funds for other purposes. This results in a fragmented, inconsistent desktop 
environment and limits the roll-out of Secretariat-wide applications. For example, 
the Office has started to plan the introduction of Windows 7 but estimates that 
around one third of desktop hardware at Headquarters lacks the necessary 
specifications to run this system effectively. 

88. Except for the enterprise applications, there is no central control, funding or 
planning for United Nations software applications. For example, the Board notes 
that the Administration has no overall software application strategy and that many of 
the applications in use in the Secretariat have been developed locally and perform 
duplicate functions. This is so despite the Administration’s efforts to control ICT 
expenditure above certain limits and the introduction of a review and approval 
process for new ICT products. 
 

  Figure V 
Distribution of responsibilities for information and communications technology 
in the Secretariat 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 30 
 

89. The lack of an overall strategy for applications has resulted in uncertainty 
regarding investments and priorities for ICT. For example, the Office of Information 
and Communications Technology is responsible for the delivery of a rations 
management system for peacekeeping operations. This system will need to be 
integrated into Umoja, but it is currently unclear how this will be taken forward in 
conjunction with the development of Umoja. Moreover, the lack of control over 
applications opens the Organization to security risks and increases the risk of 
duplicate expenditures and of exploitation by software vendors because it does not 
have a clear picture of who has purchased which applications from whom, under 
what terms and at what price. For example, a software vendor might develop 
software for one part of the Secretariat and then charge other Secretariat entities for 
its services; the vendor could then be hired to provide support and maintenance 
services, potentially at inflated rates. 

90. The Administration expects 600-700 software applications to be 
decommissioned following the implementation of Umoja. However, as the Board 
already noted in its first annual progress report on the implementation of the United 
Nations enterprise resource planning system (A/67/164), there was a lack of 
planning with regard to how the Organization will migrate from legacy systems, 
decommission them or use them to support the transition to Umoja. Nor was there 
an assessment of how this would be achieved across a range of United Nations 
business entities with varying degrees of autonomy and significant differences in 
governance, processes and service delivery models. The Board considers that the 
lack of legacy management plans is an indicator of deficiencies in both ICT 
governance and governance in the United Nations more generally. 

91. Even if 600-700 software applications are successfully decommissioned 
following the implementation of Umoja, more than 1,300 software applications will 
still be in use across the Secretariat, which makes integration and information-
sharing difficult. Some applications (for example, the identity management software 
that is used to validate and authenticate users) could be adapted for enterprise-wide 
use, while many others (for example, multiple time and attendance systems and 
document management systems) could be consolidated. 

92. The Administration agreed with the Board’s recommendation that it 
develop an application management strategy to minimize security risks and 
reduce costs. Such a strategy should address enterprise-wide applications 
primarily and include the decommissioning of legacy systems applications and 
services and any necessary data migration. The Board also recommends that, as 
part of the new strategy regarding applications, the Administration develop a 
process to ensure that strategic ICT and operational investments can be made, 
no matter where they are undertaken in the Secretariat, and that they are 
consistent with Umoja and other enterprise applications. 
 

  Information and communications technology security 
 

93. An effective information security policy helps protect an organization’s 
information and its ICT from the risks posed by cyberthreats, unauthorized 
disclosures and fraud. Information security policies must keep pace with rapid 
changes in technology and the increasing demands of staff in mobile and ever-
changing workplaces. Such policies are particularly important for high-profile 
organizations like the United Nations, which hold sensitive information on 



 A/67/651
 

31 12-65952 
 

peacekeeping and other field-based operations, commercially valuable information 
and personal information about its many staff members. The reputation of an 
organization can be damaged when, for example, information is lost or misused or 
when a website is compromised and cannot be used by its staff or stakeholders to 
access important information. 

94. Basic information-related risk management will eliminate many of the threats 
to information security. The following steps can be taken to improve cybersecurity:3 

 (a) Educating and raising the awareness of staff about acceptable behaviour 
and the secure use of the Organization’s systems is key. Human resources offices have 
an important role to play in delivering the security requirements for the Secretariat; 

 (b) Protecting networks against external and internal attacks by managing 
the network perimeter, filtering out unauthorized access and malicious content, and 
carrying out monitoring and testing controls; 

 (c) Establishing a monitoring strategy and analysing logs for unusual activity 
that could indicate an attack; 

 (d) Controlling access to the system by users, managing user privileges and 
monitoring user activity; 

 (e) Establishing an information risk management regime and supporting 
policies and keeping executive management engaged with regard to information 
security risks. 

95. The United Nations does not have an adequately secure information 
environment and existing security controls fall short of what the Board would 
expect in a modern global organization. There is a security manager in the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology, but there is no authoritative 
mechanism or mandate to improve security across the Secretariat. Differing levels 
of security breaches were brought to the Board’s attention and the United Nations 
has been the subject of serious cyberattacks, which are now experienced by all high-
profile organizations. It is not mandatory to report security incidents, however, and 
the Administration does not have a consolidated list of security incidents to enable 
the scale of the threat to be established.  

96. The Secretariat expressed major concern that prominently highlighting 
detailed issues regarding ICT security in a public report might present increased 
risks to the Organization. Without offering judgement, the Board accepted the force 
of this argument and has therefore prepared a separate memorandum, addressed to 
the Chair of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, in 
which it sets out its detailed findings and recommendations in relation to ICT 
security. It is for the Secretariat to explain the nature of its concerns to the 
Committee, if required.  

97.  The Board is aware that there are separate arrangements in place for managing 
highly sensitive communications. The processes and systems in place for managing 
the security of such communications, for example on top-level and sensitive 

__________________ 

 3  Both the ICT industry and Governments have devised various standards to guard against 
information security risks. For example, the Communications Electronic Security Group, the 
national technical authority for information assurance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, has issued Ten Steps to Reduce Your Cyber Risk. 



A/67/651  
 

12-65952 32 
 

diplomatic and peacekeeping matters, were outside the scope of the Board’s 
examination. 

98. In an effort to harmonize security environments across the Secretariat, the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology presented an information 
security charter to the ICT Management Coordination Group in July 2011. The 
charter was not approved by the Group until February 2012 and is now awaiting 
consideration by the ICT Executive Committee. Since the ICT Executive Committee 
has not met since April 2012, however, the charter remains in draft form and has not 
yet been issued to staff of the Secretariat. In the absence of an overall information 
security policy, some departments, including the Department of Field Support, have 
developed their own policies and security approaches. 

99. The Board is very concerned that the United Nations does not have an 
approved Secretariat-wide information security policy and that there is no 
harmonization of security environments across the Secretariat. Even should the 
security charter be issued by the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology, it is unclear what status the document would have or how compliance 
would be monitored or enforced. There is no clear mechanism for directing, 
advising or communicating the seriousness of security problems to the Organization, 
and no approved plan setting out the steps needed to address the problem. This 
further illustrates the weaknesses associated with the governance and accountability 
model that exists in the Secretariat. 

100. The Administration agreed with the Board’s recommendation that 
management strengthen Secretariat-wide ICT standards to consolidate and 
leverage ICT buying power and that it use these standards to drive the 
harmonization of ICT as a necessary precursor to the consolidation of software 
applications and infrastructure. 

101. The Administration agreed with the detailed recommendation on ICT 
security set out by the Board in its memorandum to the Chair of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions on this matter. 
 
 

 IV. Acknowledgement 
 
 

102. The Board wishes to express its appreciation for the cooperation and assistance 
extended to its staff by the Under-Secretary-General for Management and the Office 
of Information and Communications Technology, and members of their staff. 
 
 

(Signed) Liu Jiayi 
Auditor-General of China and 

Chair of the United Nations Board of Auditors 

(Signed) Amyas Morse 
Comptroller and Auditor-General of the 

United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
(Lead Auditor) 

(Signed) Ludovick Utouh 
Controller and Auditor-General of the United Republic of Tanzania 

 


