
 United Nations  A/62/502

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
23 October 2007 
 
Original: English 

 

07-55971 (E)    011107     
*0755971* 

Sixty-second session 
Agenda items 126 and 128 
 

Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial  
functioning of the United Nations 
 

Proposed programme budget for the biennium 2008-2009 
 
 
 

  Investing in information and communications technology: 
status report  
 
 

  Report of the Secretary-General 
 
 
 

 Summary 
 The present report is submitted in accordance with paragraph 3, section II, of 
General Assembly resolution 60/283. It provides the status on the development of an 
information and communications technology governance framework for the United 
Nations Secretariat worldwide, pending submission of a comprehensive approach to 
the General Assembly at the second part of its resumed sixty-second session. In 
addition, the report includes a request for resources for a small support team to assist 
the Chief Information Technology Officer, who assumed his duties in late August, in 
developing a vision, strategy, programme, and governance framework for 
information and communications technology in the Secretariat. 

 

 



A/62/502  
 

07-55971 2 
 

Contents 
 Paragraphs Page

I. Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1–4 3

II. Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5–6 3

III. Key principles of information and communications technology governance . . . . . 7–16 6

IV. Ongoing efforts to address outstanding information and communications 
technology issues. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17–24 9

V. Conclusion and recommendation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25–27 12

 



 A/62/502
 

3 07-55971 
 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. Major advances in information and communications technology (ICT), 
combined with the rapid growth of global networks such as the Internet and wireless 
communications, create opportunities for the United Nations Secretariat to realize 
the vision of a global and integrated Secretariat. Information and communications 
technology is the key enabler that allows the Organization to be effective and 
efficient in carrying out its work, and adapt to changing environments. By 
harnessing strategically the power of ICT, the Organization can accelerate the 
realization of its mission and growing commitments in the knowledge-intensive, 
interconnected twenty-first century.  

2. As the long-term success of the Organization’s mission depends more upon 
ICT, decision-making related to ICT becomes more critical. ICT governance deals 
with how key ICT decisions are made, who gets to make them, and who is 
accountable for what. Organizations with effective ICT governance link their 
business strategy, desirable behaviour, business and information technology (IT) 
goals, and performance metrics. Achieving effective ICT governance is a major 
challenge for large, complex and geographically dispersed organizations. According 
to a study of a premier consulting firm, organizations with high performing ICT 
governance tend to share the following common traits: clearly differentiated 
business strategies; clear business objectives for ICT investments; high-level 
executive participation in ICT governance; stable ICT governance, with few changes 
from one year to the next; well-functioning, formal exception processes; and formal 
communication methods.1  

3. The General Assembly, in its resolution 60/283, recognizing the strategic 
importance of ICT as a critical reform instrument, approved the post of Chief 
Information Technology Officer in the Executive Office of the Secretary-General. 
On the basis of the work of the new Chief Information Technology Officer, who 
assumed his duties in late August 2007, the present report is submitted to the 
General Assembly to provide the status on the development of an ICT governance 
framework for the United Nations Secretariat worldwide.  

4. The present report presents: (a) a synopsis of the previous reports of the 
Secretary-General and resolutions of the General Assembly concerning ICT 
governance; (b) the key principles that will serve as the foundation for effective ICT 
governance; (c) a summary of the ongoing efforts to address outstanding ICT issues.  
 
 

 II. Background 
 
 

5. Significant progress has been made towards the realization of effective and 
efficient ICT operations in all offices of the Secretariat since the launch of the ICT 
strategy in 2002. Today all offices of the Secretariat apply uniform ICT standards 
and have reached similar levels of technological capabilities. However, the disparate 
development of information technology systems driven largely by departmental, 
regional, and local needs, without the adoption of an organization-wide ICT vision, 
strategy and governance, has been neither effective nor cost-efficient. In fact, the 

__________________ 

 1  M. Broadbent and P. Weill, Effective IT Governance — by Design, EXP Premier report (The 
Gartner, Inc., January 2003). 



A/62/502  
 

07-55971 4 
 

absence of strategic management of ICT investments and operations has largely 
contributed to the situation of gaps and deficiencies reported in the report of the 
Secretary-General on investing in information and communications technology 
(A/60/846/Add.1). In short, the Secretariat has not yet been able to fully leverage 
ICT in a manner in which the entire Organization can benefit from its potential to 
the fullest extent. 

6. In the context of the increasingly critical role of ICT for the Organization, 
there have been a number of major reports of the Secretary-General and resolutions 
of the General Assembly concerning ICT governance for the past several years, as 
follows:  

 (a) Report of the Secretary-General on an information and communications 
technology strategy (A/57/620). The report of the Secretary-General presents an ICT 
strategic vision and strategy for the Secretariat and includes initiatives that need to 
be undertaken by the Organization. The ICT strategy builds on the objectives and 
framework laid out in the earlier report of the Secretary-General entitled 
“Information technology in the Secretariat: a plan of action” (A/55/780), and 
addresses the requests and observations made by the General Assembly in its 
resolution 56/239. The proposed strategy comprises three underlying themes: 
alignment with programmatic goals; projected return on investment; and 
governance. The strategy calls for a governance structure in line with the 
organizational complexity of the Secretariat that provides for central policy and 
standard-setting, as well as the necessary level of central, departmental and 
geographical representation and participation in all relevant ICT initiatives and 
decisions. That governance body — the Information and Communications 
Technology Board — is the interdepartmental body entrusted with the coordination, 
integration and harmonization of ICT initiatives in the United Nations Secretariat; 

 (b) Resolution 57/304 on an information and communications technology 
strategy. In the resolution, the Assembly welcomed the significant step the 
Secretary-General had taken to develop a strategic framework to guide the further 
development of ICT in the Secretariat. It stressed the importance of ICT as a 
strategic tool for strengthening the functioning of the Secretariat. The Assembly 
recognized the potential of ICT for improving effectiveness and work practices 
throughout the Organization, for facilitating multilingualism, including public 
information activities, and for enhancing programme delivery. In particular, the 
Assembly noted as key elements of the ICT strategy a governance structure and the 
requirements to ensure that investments in ICT generate tangible returns 
commensurate with their costs. The Assembly requested information on the further 
strengthening of governance and central leadership arrangements; 

 (c) Report of the Secretary-General entitled “Information and 
communications technology strategy: implementation of General Assembly 
resolution 57/304 of 15 April 2003” (A/58/377). The report of the Secretary-General 
provides an update on the ICT strategy of 2002. In particular, the report indicates 
how the governance and leadership arrangements for ICT activities have been 
strengthened. The Project Review Committee of the Information and 
Communications Technology Board provides a strong, central authority over ICT 
initiatives for the Organization as a whole. The Committee is charged with 
reviewing each ICT initiative, following a documented procedure, to ensure that 
(a) a uniform methodology is being followed to articulate and justify the rationale 



 A/62/502
 

5 07-55971 
 

behind the investment, including projected return on investments; (b) ICT standards 
for the development of systems are consistently applied; (c) total cost of projects are 
accurately projected, including ongoing maintenance and support; 
(d) comprehensive documentation is made available through the entire life cycle of 
a project; 

 (d) Addendum 1 to the detailed report of the Secretary-General on investing 
in the United Nations for a stronger Organization worldwide, entitled “Investing in 
information and communications technology” (A/60/846/Add.1). The addendum 
puts forward two major proposals regarding ICT: (a) the creation of the post of the 
Chief Information Technology Officer, at the Assistant Secretary-General level, and 
(b) the urgent upgrading of Secretariat-wide ICT systems dealing with human, 
financial and physical resources. The Chief Information Technology Officer would 
be entrusted with the responsibility for developing the overall ICT strategy for the 
Organization and leading its implementation. The position would carry sufficient 
central authority to effectively manage directly, or through appropriate delegation, 
all ICT activities in the Secretariat. The authority would cover activities at 
Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters, as well as in the field, including all 
peacekeeping and other field missions. The Management Committee, with the Chief 
Information Technology Officer as a permanent member, would consider and decide 
on any significant information technology investment initiatives. After the 
establishment of the position of the Chief Information Technology Officer, he/she 
would establish the appropriate strategies and structure of the Office of Information 
and Communications Technology within the Department of Management;  

 (e) Resolution 60/283 entitled “Investing in the United Nations for a 
stronger Organization worldwide: detailed report”. As part of the resolution, the 
General Assembly decided to establish the post of Chief Information Technology 
Officer at the level of Assistant Secretary-General in the Executive Office of the 
Secretary-General. In addition, the General Assembly requested: (a) at its sixty-
second session, to rejustify the level and resource requirements for the post of the 
Chief Information Technology Officer in the context of the proposed programme 
budget for the biennium 2008-2009, taking fully into account the existing staffing 
structure and resources dedicated to ICT functions in the Organization; (b) at its 
resumed sixty-first session, detailed information on the structure and staffing 
requirements of the envisaged ICT structure, as well as the lines of responsibility, 
the functions of the proposed structure and its relationship with other ICT units in 
Headquarters departments, offices away from Headquarters, regional economic 
commissions, and field missions; (c) at its resumed sixty-first session, the 
comprehensive report referred to in paragraphs 17 and 18 of the report of the 
Secretary-General (A/60/846/Add.1) and to respond to other relevant General 
Assembly resolutions; 

 (f) Comprehensive report of the Secretary-General on strengthening the 
capacity of the United Nations to manage and sustain peace operations (A/61/858 
and Corr.1), and resolution 61/279. In his report, the Secretary-General 
recommended that a new Department of Field Support be created to strengthen the 
capacity of the Organization to mount and sustain peace operations. In paragraph 82 
of his report, the Secretary-General proposed that the Department of Field Support 
would be responsible for delivering “dedicated support to United Nations field 
operations, including on personnel, finance, procurement, logistical, 
communications, information technology, and other administrative and general 



A/62/502  
 

07-55971 6 
 

management issues. … To strengthen the efficiency and coherence of support 
provided to the field and to ensure effective oversight, existing Headquarters 
capacities related to field operations would be consolidated and assigned to the 
Department of Field Support”. By its resolution 61/279, the General Assembly 
approved the establishment of the Department of Field Support with the functions 
outlined in the aforementioned report of the Secretary-General.  
 
 

 III. Key principles of information and communications 
technology governance  
 
 

7. On the basis of the earlier reports of the Secretary-General and resolutions of 
the General Assembly as well as best practices in IT governance, a number of key 
principles have been developed to serve as the foundation for establishing the ICT 
governance framework of the United Nations Secretariat worldwide. These 
principles are: (a) business strategy drives ICT investments for better outcomes; 
(b) the Chief Information Technology Officer is responsible for the overall direction 
and performance of ICT activities in the Organization; (c) the Office of Information 
and Communications Technology is provided with sufficient authority and resources 
to manage significant ICT activities that affect the entire Organization; (d) a 
sensible balance between centralization and decentralization of ICT functions is 
maintained; and (e) ICT units and staff are centres of excellence for innovation. 
These principles are further explained below.  

8. Business strategy drives ICT initiatives for better outcomes. The mission and 
substantive programme of the Secretariat must be the primary basis for ICT 
investments for the future. Therefore, it is essential to take a strategic approach for 
understanding the critical needs of the Organization and aligning ICT initiatives to 
meeting those needs. Asking questions such as “How does Internet technology 
support our mission?” and “How can we apply modern technologies and methods to 
supporting management reform?” need to be the accepted practices rather than the 
exception. The strategic approach requires the senior management of the 
Organization to engage in prioritizing and selecting ICT investments. At the same 
time, the approach also requires the Chief Information Technology Officer and 
senior managers dealing with ICT to participate in management discussions of the 
Organization’s strategy and improvement efforts. Therefore, it is necessary to create 
a collaborative and effective decision-making environment in which top business 
and ICT managers can discuss and guide the Organization’s ICT strategy and 
investments. 

9. The Chief Information Technology Officer is responsible for the overall 
direction and performance of ICT activities in the Organization. The Chief 
Information Technology Officer is provided with sufficient central authority and 
resources to oversee ICT activities in the United Nations Secretariat worldwide. The 
key functions and responsibilities of the Chief Information Technology Officer are 
to:  

 (a) Provide a strategic vision and leadership for information and technology 
management for the Secretariat worldwide; 

 (b) Act as the principal representative of the Secretary-General on 
technology and knowledge management issues; 



 A/62/502
 

7 07-55971 
 

 (c) Provide advice to the Management Committee on ICT decisions and 
matters, in his capacity as a permanent member of the Committee; 

 (d) Promulgate policies and standards on ICT matters; 

 (e) Participate in ICT steering committees that oversee major ICT initiatives;  

 (f) Oversee organization-wide ICT project implementation and change 
management processes; 

 (g) Head the Office of Information and Communications Technology which 
is responsible for carrying out strategic ICT activities and providing shared services 
affecting the entire Organization; 

 (h) Oversee, through appropriate delegation, ICT operations and investments 
at all offices of the Secretariat; 

 (i) Monitor and improve the effectiveness of the overall ICT governance 
framework. 

10. The Office of Information and Communications Technology is provided with 
sufficient authority and resources to manage significant ICT activities that affect the 
entire Organization. The main functions of the Office, headed by the Chief 
Information Technology Officer, are to:  

 (a) Undertake strategic planning of major ICT systems and initiatives 
supporting the Organization’s mission and programmes across all offices; 

 (b) Review budgets from all sources of funds for all ICT initiatives and 
operations of the Organization; 

 (c) Monitor, measure and evaluate the performance of ICT units against the 
established goals, objectives, and budgetary targets; 

 (d) Set technological directions and architecture for the Organization; 

 (e) Plan and develop all Organization-wide ICT applications, including, inter 
alia, an enterprise resources planning system and other major systems;   

 (f) Plan and develop the overall infrastructure architecture encompassing 
communications networks and data centres of the Organization; 

 (g) Leverage the Organization’s global presence and ICT infrastructure to 
execute and host ICT solutions and shared services in order to maximize benefits 
and cost-effectiveness; 

 (h) Undertake, in collaboration with other ICT units, ICT research and 
development activities; 

 (i) Oversee the assessment and management of ICT risks for the 
Organization; 

 (j) Develop and maintain the information security policy of the Organization 
and monitor its compliance across operational units; 

 (k) Oversee the implementation of the disaster recovery and business 
continuity plans for the Organization;  

 (l) Develop and maintain the ICT human resources management strategy 
and programme. 



A/62/502  
 

07-55971 8 
 

11. Information and communications technology is a powerful instrument that 
provides cross-cutting and specialized services essential for the overall efficient 
performance of the Secretariat and is crucial in supporting the management reform 
and overall modernization of the Organization. The scope of functions of the Office 
of Information and Communications Technology is broad. It encompasses setting 
strategic ICT goals requiring the attention of the Executive Office of the Secretary-
General, as well as implementing Secretariat-wide changes to achieve these goals, 
requiring a sufficient level of resources to ensure the successful delivery of 
significant results for the entire Organization. Integrating the two functions  
(i.e., strategic goal-setting and ability to implement changes) will allow the Office 
of Information and Communications Technology to achieve its overall effectiveness 
for the long term. In that regard, the Office should be provided with sufficient 
authority and resources under its direct control to produce far-reaching results. To 
carry out its mandate effectively, the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology should be an independent unit, reporting directly to the Executive 
Office of the Secretary-General. 

12. A sensible balance between centralization and decentralization of ICT 
functions is maintained. As is the case in other large, complex, and geographically 
dispersed organizations, the effectiveness of the envisaged overall ICT structure for 
the Secretariat will depend on establishing a proper balance between centralized 
functions and those requiring sufficient delegated authority to be performed 
effectively. Excessive centralization can hinder the ability of field operations to 
deliver effective and responsive services, while excessive decentralization tends to 
create duplication, waste, loss of strategic coherence and accountability, as well as 
uneven levels of technological innovation. It is therefore important to differentiate 
the main functions of other ICT units in the Organization from those of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology mentioned earlier.  

13. In that regard, the main functions of ICT units of Headquarters departments, 
offices away from Headquarters, and field missions, under delegated authority, are 
to: 

 (a) Assess departmental or local business needs and required supporting 
technology solutions; 

 (b) Develop and maintain applications to meet specific local requirements in 
conformity with the Organization-wide ICT strategy and standards; 

 (c) Identify local ICT infrastructure requirements; 

 (d) Manage local day-to-day ICT operations;  

 (e) Define and manage departmental or local service levels and contractual 
agreements; 

 (f) Develop and manage departmental or local ICT budgets; 

 (g) Coordinate and provide training for departmental or local users; 

 (h) Execute departmental or local disaster recovery and business continuity 
plans;  

 (i) Administer the security of departmental or local information and data in 
conformity with the Organization-wide information security policy and guidelines.  



 A/62/502
 

9 07-55971 
 

14. The development of all new ICT initiatives, whether customized systems or 
the result of acquisitions of software packages, regardless of their source of funding, 
is subject to a review by the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology. The review process is intended to ensure the proper strategic directions 
and coherence across the Organization as well as assessing the projected added 
value and return on investment from the initiatives. However, the ultimate authority 
for prioritizing and approving major ICT initiatives resides with the Management 
Committee — the highest level executive committee on management matters, 
including ICT.  

15. Information and communications technology units and staff are the centres of 
excellence for innovation. In complex, multidimensional organizations such as the 
United Nations Secretariat, innovation cannot originate from a single source 
whether it is Headquarters in New York, an office away from Headquarters, or a 
field mission. To encourage ICT innovation across the board, the Secretariat should 
move away from a Headquarters-centric approach to a network-based collaborative 
model in which any ICT units can initiate and develop effective ICT solutions in 
close cooperation and collaboration with other units in the system. In this model, 
information on any effective ICT solutions and methods should be readily available 
for sharing and implementation within the Secretariat. 

16. Information and communications technology units should be encouraged to 
create a critical mass of specific core competencies or skills to serve as the centre of 
excellence within the Organization. In addition, an appropriate administrative 
mechanism and staff training programmes should be established to allow staff to 
easily move from one ICT unit to another for career development and skills 
acquisition. The long-term viability of the Organization’s ICT is critically dependent 
upon the availability of a competent, mobile, and motivated ICT workforce. In that 
regard, the new ICT governance framework should support all ICT units to achieve 
excellence in managing their ICT activities and staff. 
 
 

 IV. Ongoing efforts to address outstanding information and 
communications technology issues 
 
 

17. The Chief Information Technology Officer, recruited through an open and 
competitive process, assumed his duties at the United Nations Secretariat in late 
August 2007. The Chief Information Technology Officer is assigned to the 
Executive Office of the Secretary-General and serves as a permanent member of the 
Management Committee. The Chief Information Technology Officer has begun to 
gather broadly views on ICT from Member States, Headquarters departments, 
offices away from Headquarters, regional economic commissions, and field 
missions. The Chief Information Technology Officer has also established a working 
group to firm up the strategy and approach for the project of developing a new 
enterprise resources planning system to replace the Integrated Management 
Information System (IMIS), Galaxy and other related systems. On the basis of the 
earlier work of the Secretariat as well as his knowledge and experience, the Chief 
Information Technology Officer has made significant progress towards the 
identification of the key principles of ICT governance of the Organization, and has 
had extensive consultation with the Department of Management and the Department 



A/62/502  
 

07-55971 10 
 

of Field Support, where most of the ICT resources of the Organization are currently 
located.  

18. Given the importance of this issue for the long-term strategic development of 
the Organization, however, the Secretary-General considers that further and broader 
consultations using the principles of ICT governance with all stakeholders are 
necessary before a comprehensive proposal can be made. The Chief Information 
Technology Officer, who has recently taken up his duties, will need more time to 
gather all relevant information and address outstanding issues on ICT, including the 
development of the ICT governance framework. More specifically, the Chief 
Information Technology Officer needs to:  

 (a) Assess the current state of ICT and developing an appropriate 
management and organizational approach; 

 (b) Continue to broadly solicit inputs from key stakeholders to assess key 
ICT challenges and issues facing the Organization; 

 (c) Develop the medium-term IT vision, strategy and the supporting high-
level programme in consultation with the Department of Management, the 
Department of Field Support, other Headquarters departments, offices away from 
Headquarters, regional economic commissions, and field missions; 

 (d) Develop the ICT governance framework for the Secretariat worldwide, 
including the establishment of decision-making bodies, advisory groups, as well as 
the articulation of functions, authority, structure, and resource requirements of the 
envisaged Office of Information and Communications Technology and its 
relationship with other ICT units of Headquarters departments, offices away from 
Headquarters, regional economic commissions, and field missions with particular 
attention to the management of ICT support for peace operations; 

 (e) Set up an interim management arrangement and communication channels 
through which the Chief Information Technology Officer can oversee ICT work 
across the board and participate in major decision-making;  

 (f) Lead a comprehensive architectural review exercise, aimed at creating a 
coherent global communications and infrastructure design of the Secretariat and 
developing an operational model; 

 (g) Oversee and guide ongoing major ICT initiatives, such as the enterprise 
resources planning project and other major ICT development projects. 

19. Both the Department of Management and the Department of Field Support are 
assisting the Chief Information Technology Officer by providing a limited level of 
temporary staff and other resources. However, in order to enable the Chief 
Information Technology Officer to accomplish the above tasks and carry out other 
ongoing work, a small support team reporting directly to the Chief Information 
Technology Officer needs to be established, for the period January through June 
2008. Considering that the outcomes will affect the long-term effectiveness and 
efficiency of ICT in the Secretariat worldwide, it is essential that the tasks be 
carried out in a thorough and comprehensive manner. The tasks will require not only 
in-depth research and analysis together with expert assistance, as appropriate, but 
also extensive consultations with staff at Headquarters departments, offices away 
from Headquarters, regional economic commissions and field missions. 



 A/62/502
 

11 07-55971 
 

20. To fund the interim team of the Chief Information Technology Officer, general 
temporary assistance resources in the amount of $421,400 (before recosting) would 
be required, corresponding to four Professional and one General Service position 
from January through June 2008. The team would consist of the following: (a) one 
Principal Officer (D-1) who would provide expertise in organization and 
management, oversee the review and analysis of information, assist in consultations 
with senior managers and Member States, and lead change management and 
communications efforts; (b) one Senior Officer (P-5) to advise on human resources 
management, career development paths and training; (c) one Senior Officer (P-5) to 
provide expertise in information and communications technology, both applications 
and infrastructure; (d) one First Officer (P-4) to handle budget matters and financial 
analysis, and collect and analyse relevant information from offices worldwide; 
(e) one Administrative Assistant (General Service) to perform general administrative 
and support functions. Operational costs in the amount of $194,200 (before 
recosting) would be required for office accommodation, commercial 
communications, supplies, furniture and equipment related to the aforementioned 
five positions.  

21. Furthermore, resource requirements for the six-month period would include 
provision for consultancy services in the amount of $234,700 (before recosting), 
which would enable the Secretariat to obtain external expert advice on best practices 
and industry trends in developing its own ICT vision, strategy, programme and 
governance framework. Consultants would be engaged for a period of 20 weeks to 
assist the Secretariat in: (a) collecting and analysing the latest business and 
technology trends of the ICT industry including best practices in ICT governance; 
(b) developing the ICT vision, strategy and programme, and validating the results 
against the best practices in the industry; (c) identifying alternative governance 
models and evaluating their pros and cons; and (d) developing the respective roles 
among United Nations staff, United Nations ICT staff and vendor companies in 
carrying out ICT work for the Secretariat.  

22. In addition, travel funds in the amount of $75,100 (before recosting) would be 
needed for the Chief Information Technology Officer and the interim team to 
adequately consult with all key stakeholders on ICT in the Organization and other 
international organizations during this crucial transition period. For the ICT 
strategic planning exercise, six regional group meetings would be conducted to 
understand business needs and priorities, and develop the Organization-wide ICT 
vision, strategy, and programme. The participants for the group meetings will 
include representatives from Headquarters departments, offices away from 
Headquarters, regional economic commissions, and selected field missions. With 
regard to ICT governance framework development, three trips are envisaged to other 
international institutions and organizations to evaluate the strength and weakness of 
their ICT governance framework, and use the knowledge to develop the governance 
framework for the Secretariat.  

23. The Secretary-General proposes that a comprehensive report on the ICT 
vision, strategy, high-level programme, and governance framework be submitted to 
the General Assembly at the second part of its resumed sixty-second session. The 
governance framework to be proposed would take into account all existing ICT 
resources from all sources of funding and identify any redundancies or offsets 
available as a result of the transfer of functions from existing entities to the new 
Office of Information and Communications Technology. 



A/62/502  
 

07-55971 12 
 

24. It should be noted that the detailed proposal for implementing an enterprise 
resources planning system in the United Nations Secretariat is covered in a separate 
report to the General Assembly, as is the proposal for disaster recovery and business 
continuity. Both the enterprise resources planning project, and the disaster recovery 
and business continuity project have strong governance structures based on the 
principles of ICT governance mentioned earlier, and will not be significantly 
affected by the overall ICT governance framework to be presented to the General 
Assembly at its resumed sixty-second session.   
 
 

 V. Conclusion and recommendation 
 
 

25. The General Assembly, recognizing the strategic importance of ICT, approved 
the position of Chief Information Technology Officer in the Executive Office of the 
Secretary-General. In the present report, the Secretary-General provides an interim 
assessment indicating that, to fully achieve the goals the General Assembly intended 
for this position, the Chief Information Technology Officer needs sufficient central 
authority and resources to produce significant results for the Organization, and 
should therefore head a separate office, the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology, reporting directly to the Executive Office of the 
Secretary-General. Acknowledging the key role of ICT to the strategic direction of 
the Organization, the Chief Information Technology Officer will have a role at the 
highest level of policymaking by being a permanent member of the Management 
Committee. 

26. However, given the importance of ICT for the long-term strategic development 
of the Secretariat, the Chief Information Technology Officer, who has recently taken 
up his duties, and other key senior officials will need more time and consultations to 
address outstanding ICT issues, including the development of the ICT governance 
framework. A comprehensive exercise will enable the Organization to leverage the 
full potential of ICT as a critical instrument for modernizing the Organization and 
effectively supporting management reform. Accordingly, the ICT vision, strategy, 
high-level programme and governance framework for ICT will be submitted to the 
General Assembly at the second part of its resumed sixty-second session.  

27. The General Assembly may wish to: 

 (a) Take note of the proposed course of action contained in the present 
report;  

 (b) Appropriate a total amount of $925,400 (before recosting) under the 
proposed programme budget for the biennium 2008-2009, comprising $747,900 
under section 1, Overall policymaking, direction and coordination; $177,500 
under section 28D, Office of Central Support Services; and $68,500 under 
section 35, Staff assessment, to be offset by an equivalent amount under income 
section 1, Income from staff assessment, to provide a small interim team for the 
Chief Information Technology Officer. The provision would represent a charge 
against the contingency fund. 

 


