
 United Nations  A/63/487

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
16 October 2008 
 
Original: English 

 

08-55427 (E)    211008 
*0855427* 

Sixty-third session 
Agenda items 118 and 132 
 

Programme budget for the biennium 2008-2009 
 

Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing 
of the United Nations peacekeeping operations 

 
 
 

  Information and communications technology 
 
 

  Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions 
 
 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has 
considered the following reports: 

 (a) Investing in information and communications technology: information 
and communications technology strategy for the United Nations Secretariat 
(A/62/793 and Corr.1 and Add.1, in advance form); 

 (b) Information and communications technology: enterprise systems for the 
United Nations Secretariat worldwide (A/62/510/Rev.1); 

 (c) Information and communications technology security, disaster recovery 
and business continuity for the United Nations (A/62/477). 

2. During its consideration of the reports, the Advisory Committee met with the 
Under-Secretary-General for Management, the Under-Secretary-General for Field 
Support and the Chief Information Technology Officer, as well as other 
representatives of the Secretary-General, who provided additional information and 
clarification. 

3. The reports of the Secretary-General contained in documents A/62/793 and 
Corr.1 and Add.1 and A/62/510/Rev.1 were submitted pursuant to section II of 
General Assembly resolution 60/283, in which the Assembly decided to establish the 
post of Chief Information Technology Officer at the level of Assistant Secretary-
General in the Executive Office of the Secretary-General and to replace the 
Integrated Management Information System (IMIS) with a next-generation 
enterprise resource planning system (ERP). The report on the information and 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 2 
 

communications technology (ICT) strategy (A/62/793 and Corr.1) sets out an overall 
approach and management framework for the Secretariat’s ICT programmes and 
infrastructure over the next three to five years. The addendum to that report 
(A/62/793/Add.1) was submitted in response to a request made by the Advisory 
Committee during its hearings on the main report in June 2008 for more specific 
information on the lines of authority, accountability, the division of labour and 
resource implications resulting from the envisaged change in structure. The report of 
the Secretary-General on enterprise systems (A/62/510/Rev.1) provides an update of 
information contained in document A/62/510, including estimated resource 
requirements for the ERP system until the projected end of the project in 2012. The 
report on security, disaster recovery and business continuity (A/62/477) responds to 
requests made by the General Assembly in its resolutions 60/266 (sect. XV) and 
59/276 (sect. XI).  

4. During the main part of the sixty-second session of the General Assembly, the 
Advisory Committee considered a series of reports submitted by the Secretary-
General on information and communications technology concerning enterprise 
systems (A/62/510), security, disaster recovery and business continuity (A/62/477) 
and the status of the development of an information and communications technology 
governance framework (A/62/502). The related report of the Committee 
(A/62/7/Add.31) has not yet been taken up by the Assembly. However, some of the 
recommendations and observations contained in the Committee’s report, in 
particular those related to the resources requested for the biennium 2008-2009, have 
been overtaken by events, since the Secretary-General has issued more specific 
proposals on the ICT strategy and the organizational structure of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology and revised proposals for enterprise 
systems, including ERP. As mentioned in its previous report (A/62/7/Add.31, 
para. 33), the Committee returned to aspects of the disaster recovery and business 
continuity proposals during its consideration of document A/62/477. The Committee 
notes that the wide range of ICT issues covered in those reports are interrelated and 
complement each other. 
 
 

 II. Information and communications technology strategy for 
the United Nations Secretariat 
 
 

 A. Information and communications technology strategy 
 
 

  Background and context 
 

5. The Advisory Committee has frequently stressed that the Organization would 
benefit greatly from more effective leadership in the area of ICT at the United 
Nations, which could be exercised through a more centralized approach to managing 
ICT initiatives and operations Organization-wide. Existing arrangements regarding 
ICT activities do not provide a coherent strategy and make it difficult to identify all 
ICT assets, develop and enforce standard methodologies and implement 
Organization-wide systems. This has led to the proliferation of incompatible and 
duplicative ICT systems. 

6. In response to General Assembly resolution 56/239, the Secretary-General 
proposed during the biennium 2002-2003 an ICT strategy with a strategic 
framework and plan of action to guide the development of information and 



 A/63/487
 

3 08-55427 
 

communications technology at the United Nations (A/57/620). The Assembly took 
note of the proposals in its resolution 57/304. However, the plan of action proposed 
in that report did not produce the desired results. Recognizing that the lack of 
effective governance and leadership was the cause of the piecemeal development of 
systems and databases across the Secretariat, the Advisory Committee, in its first 
report on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005 (A/58/7, 
para. 126), recommended the creation of a new senior position of Chief Information 
Officer of the United Nations to exercise effective control over the Organization’s 
ICT structure, strategic growth plans and operational policies and procedures, as 
well as lead and coordinate the development of the next generation of major 
systems. 

7. In his report entitled “Investing in the United Nations: for a stronger 
Organization worldwide”, the Secretary-General acknowledged that a largely 
dysfunctional situation had evolved at the United Nations, with multiple ICT units 
having been created in various departments and at various duty stations but with no 
functioning integrating mechanism in place, resulting in, inter alia, out-of-date, 
fragmented systems and failure to fully exploit the potential of ICT to facilitate and 
support management reform (A/60/692 and Corr.1, paras. 47-52). His proposals to 
establish the post of Chief Information Technology Officer in the Executive Office 
of the Secretary-General and to replace IMIS with a next-generation enterprise 
resource planning system were approved by the General Assembly in its resolution 
60/283. The Advisory Committee notes that the Chief Information Technology 
Officer was appointed in August 2007. Upon enquiry, the Committee was informed 
that the Officer reports directly to the Deputy Secretary-General, who also chairs the 
Executive Committee on ICT. 

8. In the view of the Advisory Committee, there is an obvious need for strong and 
central leadership and management of ICT activities at the United Nations, more 
efficient utilization of ICT resources, modernization of information systems and 
improvements in the ICT services available to United Nations personnel. The central 
information management system of the United Nations (IMIS) has not kept up with 
the changing environment of the Organization and has become obsolete: many 
processes remain paper-based;1 functional requirements of peacekeeping and 
humanitarian activities are not covered; and data from different databases cannot be 
consolidated to provide the meaningful information required to manage the 
Organization effectively. In addition, comprehensive information on the actual costs 
of ICT is not available at present. The gaps in functionality result in duplication of 
effort, as well as loss of productivity and efficiency. In the above-mentioned report, 
the Secretary-General further stressed that most of the management reform 
proposals submitted in the context of the “investing” round of reforms could not be 
implemented without appropriate ICT systems and support (A/60/692, para. 52). 
The Committee also notes that an Organization-wide survey conducted in January 
2008 (A/62/793, paras. 8 and 9) to gauge the level of satisfaction of United Nations 
personnel with respect to 12 core ICT services showed mixed results, particularly in 
key areas such as ICT training, remote access to United Nations applications and 
ability to find information on United Nations websites and in document repositories. 
The Committee notes from annex IV to the report on the ICT strategy (A/62/793) 

__________________ 

 1  See, for example, the observations of the Board of Auditors on the management of contributions 
(A/63/5 (Vol. I), chap. II, paras. 33-51). 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 4 
 

that personnel dedicated to ICT functions Secretariat-wide number almost 3,800. 
Given the resources devoted to ICT, it is essential to ensure that they are managed 
and utilized effectively and efficiently. 

9. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was provided with additional 
information in support of the central leadership and management of ICT activities at 
the United Nations. It was informed that unlike other cross-cutting functions such as 
finance and human resources, ICT involves the development and operation of many 
large and complex assets, such as application systems (e.g., ERP), data centres and 
communication facilities. Such assets must be well integrated in order to take 
advantage of the potential for economies of scale and scope and reduce development 
and operating costs. The Committee was further informed that a central leadership 
structure would facilitate effective planning and coordination of ICT activities and 
increased reliance on shared application systems and infrastructure, thereby leading 
to significant efficiency gains and cost savings. 

10. In this connection, the Advisory Committee points to the observation of the 
Board of Auditors regarding gaps in information system documentation as well as 
the lack of an Organization-wide data dictionary resulting from the decentralization 
of the development of applications. The Board has recommended that those gaps be 
addressed in the context of the current reform exercise and that the entire 
architecture of systems be fully documented (A/63/5 (Vol. I), chap. II, paras. 311-
316). In the view of the Committee, the Secretary-General should be requested to 
implement the recommendation of the Board of Auditors as expeditiously as 
possible. 
 

  General comments 
 

11. The Advisory Committee welcomes the efforts that have been made to present 
a comprehensive report on this complex subject. The Secretary-General has 
proposed an overall direction for information management in the Secretariat as well 
as an integrated set of strategies for ICT governance and the management of the 
Organization’s internal operations, knowledge-sharing and ICT infrastructure. The 
approach builds on the existing ICT framework and maintains a balance between the 
centralization and decentralization of ICT functions. The Committee believes that 
this is necessary to avoid a piecemeal approach, false starts and unwise investments 
in ICT and to meet the growing demands of the Organization as it becomes 
increasingly reliant on its technology and communications infrastructure. 
 

  Key features of the Secretary-General’s proposal 
 

12. The Advisory Committee notes that the intention of the Secretary-General in 
his reports (A/62/793 and Corr.1 and Add.1) was to set out a road map for the 
direction of ICT at the United Nations for the next three- to five-year-period. It was 
informed that the Chief Information Technology Officer had consulted widely 
within the Secretariat to develop his proposals at Headquarters, offices away from 
Headquarters and peacekeeping missions, as well as with other United Nations 
entities and permanent missions. The Secretary-General indicated that the ICT 
strategy encompasses five cross-cutting priority areas, namely: (a) the ICT 
management structure; (b) strategic programme delivery; (c) service and 
performance management; (d) global architecture and standards; and (e) financial 
control and reporting (see A/62/793, paras. 15-19). 



 A/63/487
 

5 08-55427 
 

13. The ICT strategy would be carried out through: 

 (a) Three strategic Organization-wide programmes that build on one another 
and are critical to the operation of the Organization, namely: 

 • Resource management, for financial, human and other resources 

 • Knowledge management, mainly for the substantive departments 

 • Infrastructure management, for data centres, communications and help desks 

The goals, objectives and key activities of those programmes are set out in tables 1 
to 3 of the report (A/62/793). The Committee was informed that a number of 
strategic projects would be planned and implemented over the next five years under 
the three programmes. For example, ERP is a project under the resource 
management programme. The resources allocated to it will be included in the 
organizational structure of the resource management services (see A/62/793, fig. IV). 
The activities enumerated in tables 1 to 3 of the report are part of the ICT strategy 
and constitute an inventory of ideas requiring attention that may be developed into 
projects, depending on the priorities set by the programme steering committees (see 
A/62/510/Rev.1 and A/62/793, para. 27 (b)); 

 (b) A management framework for a centralized ICT structure for decision-
making and oversight of related investments and projects, comprising: 

 • A high-level Executive Committee on ICT to make decisions on ICT 
investments and priorities, chaired by the Deputy Secretary-General with a 
small number of Under-Secretaries-General from substantive and support areas 
(A/62/793, para. 27 (a)) 

 • Steering committees for decision-making and oversight of each of the three 
ICT programmes (ibid., para. 27 (b)) 

 • Advisory groups representing the client departments of ICT services to provide 
input on their requirements and priorities (ibid., para. 28) 

 • A Chief Information Technology Officer who is responsible for the overall 
direction and performance of ICT activities in the Organization (ibid., 
paras. 29-32) 

 • A central independent Office of Information and Communications Technology 
to implement Organization-wide ICT activities, headed by the Chief 
Information Technology Officer and reporting to the Executive Office of the 
Secretary-General through the Deputy Secretary-General. The Office would 
include the current Information Technology Services Division of the 
Department of Management and would consolidate the “strategic” or central 
functions currently performed by ICT units across the Secretariat (ibid., paras. 
33-35) 

 • Decentralized information and communications technology units in Secretariat 
departments and at offices away from Headquarters to provide departmental 
systems and services based on organizational standards established by the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology and to deal with local 
and operational issues (ibid., paras 43-46) 

 (c) The elaboration of the organizational structure and responsibilities of the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology (see A/62/793/Add.1) and a 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 6 
 

plan for the implementation of the ICT strategy in two phases over the next three to 
five years (ibid., para. 81). 

14. During the first phase of the implementation of the ICT strategy, the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology will, among other activities, conduct 
structural reviews of Secretariat-wide ICT units with a view to rationalizing and 
harmonizing ICT operations and structures and defining coordination and reporting 
relationships between the Office and other ICT units. The Advisory Committee is 
of the view that a comprehensive inventory of ICT capacities across the 
Secretariat is very much needed. Such an inventory should include not only 
personnel dedicated to ICT functions, but also staff carrying out such functions 
on a part-time basis. The Committee expects that this exercise will lead to 
enhanced efficiency that should be reported to the General Assembly in the 
context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011. 

15. In response to its request, the Advisory Committee was provided with a 
breakdown of ICT personnel by category/grade and by department/office (see annex I). 
 

  Observations and comments 
 

16. The Secretary-General’s plan for the management of ICT activities in the 
Secretariat is based on strong central leadership for the establishment and 
implementation of Organization-wide ICT standards and activities along with a 
decentralized approach to meet the specific programmatic and operational 
requirements of all departments. The Committee agrees with the Secretary-General 
that only “strategic” or Organization-wide functions should be centralized. It notes 
that three thematic clusters are to be established: (a) resources management, which 
targets administrative groups; (b) knowledge management, for substantive groups; 
and (c) infrastructure management, for ICT specialists. The Advisory Committee 
broadly agrees with the approach proposed by the Secretary-General. 

17. As discussed above, the proposed ICT organizational structure is built around 
the following six core elements: (a) the Executive Committee on ICT; (b) steering 
committees on the ICT programmes; (c) advisory bodies; (d) the Chief Information 
Technology Officer; (e) the Office of Information and Communications Technology; 
and (f) other ICT units. The Committee recognizes that ICT has become an 
integral part of the work of United Nations staff; it can no longer be viewed 
simply as a technology, but must be considered as an essential tool to support 
work processes. ICT governance mechanisms should therefore involve staff and 
managers across all departments and duty stations who are affected by the ICT 
systems and services provided by the Organization. Under the Secretary-
General’s proposal, decisions on ICT investments and priorities would be made by 
the Executive Committee on ICT, comprising senior managers and the Chief 
Information Technology Officer, not by technical specialists alone. Similarly, users 
of ICT systems and services would have clear mechanisms for making their needs 
known and having them taken into account through the programme steering 
committees and advisory groups. Specialists in the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology and departmental ICT units would be responsible and 
accountable for implementing systems and providing services. 

18. The Advisory Committee recognizes that the ICT governance mechanisms 
envisaged within the Secretariat are intended to provide for strong central 
leadership and the engagement of different groups of stakeholders. It is the 



 A/63/487
 

7 08-55427 
 

Committee’s view that an excessively cumbersome or bureaucratic structure 
can hinder decision-making and dilute accountability. It stresses that the 
Secretary-General should keep the ICT governance structure under review and 
that he should propose any necessary adjustments to make it simpler and 
operationally effective as a policy-setting and management instrument. 

19. Concerning the proposals on the ICT management framework, the Advisory 
Committee notes that they fall within the purview of the Secretary-General in his 
role as Chief Administrative Officer of the Organization and recognizes the 
Secretary-General’s prerogative in constituting the teams as he deems appropriate. 
The General Assembly should be kept informed of changes to this framework 
in the context of its consideration of the proposed programme budget. 

20. The Advisory Committee believes that the successful integration of central 
ICT functions across the Secretariat is essential to achieving the key goals of 
coherence and coordination, which have so far eluded the United Nations. 
Repeated failures to meet these objectives will result in increased costs and 
delays in the implementation of key objectives of management reform, such as 
the implementation of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards 
(IPSAS) (see para. 54 below). 

21. In this connection, the Advisory Committee points out that the 
implementation of a governance structure and the establishment of the Office 
of Information and Communications Technology alone will not be sufficient for 
the achievement of those goals, which would require the Office effectively to 
become the entity that oversees the overall strategic ICT direction for the 
Organization, plans and coordinates Secretariat-wide ICT activities and 
provides enterprise systems and infrastructure. To achieve those ends, it would 
be necessary to put into effect the measures enumerated in paragraph 35 of the 
report (A/62/793), which support coherence and coordination. This would 
require that new procedures and working methods be put into place, in 
cooperation with the Department of Field Support, the Office of Human 
Resources Management, the Office of Programme Planning, Budget and 
Accounts and the Office of Central Support Services. In the view of the 
Committee, the establishment of these procedures also falls within the purview 
of the Secretary-General. Concerning the function described under paragraph 
35 (o) of the report, the Committee considers that a clarification of the role of 
the Office of Information and Communications Technology and its Chief in the 
area of procurement is required. 

22. In section V of his report, the Secretary-General provided some general 
information on the effectiveness and efficiencies expected from the implementation 
of the ICT strategy. In response to its request, the Advisory Committee was provided 
with additional information, including examples of areas in which efficiency gains 
could be realized as a result of the implementation of the ICT strategy. For example, 
the consolidation of numerous existing help desks into a centralized round-the-clock 
global service desk for the entire Organization would reduce overall operating costs, 
and the integration of disaster recovery and business continuity services for the 
Secretariat would lead to considerable cost savings compared with the decentralized 
local approaches taken by each of the departments, offices away from Headquarters 
and field missions. The Committee believes that there is a need to identify and 
quantify more precisely the efficiency gains and/or benefits expected from the 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 8 
 

implementation of the ICT strategy. It recommends that the Secretary-General 
be requested to define specific objectives in this regard. In addition, the 
Secretary-General should explain the methodology and benchmarks used to 
identify and measure those benefits and report thereon in the context of the 
proposed programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011. 
 
 

 B. Proposed structure of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology 
 
 

23. In the addendum to his report (A/62/793/Add.1), the Secretary-General 
presented concrete proposals for the organizational structure of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology and for the reallocation of existing 
resources to establish it. The Advisory Committee notes that this represents a step 
towards the implementation of the ICT management framework set out in document 
A/62/793. At this stage, the proposal concerns the integration of existing resources 
from the Information Technology Services Division of the Department of 
Management and the Information and Communications Technology Division of the 
Department of Field Support. The salient features of the proposal are as follows: 

 (a) The Office of Information and Communications Technology would be an 
independent organizational unit that reports directly to the Executive Office of the 
Secretary-General but would not be an office within the Executive Office; 

 (b) The Chief Information Technology Officer would continue to report to 
the Deputy Secretary-General; 

 (c) The Office of Information and Communications Technology would have 
a total staffing complement of 165 posts, including 136 regular budget, 13 support 
account and 13 extrabudgetary posts; 

 (d) The entire resources of the Information Technology Services Division 
would be transferred to the Office of Information and Communications Technology, 
including 135 regular budget, 13 extrabudgetary and 2 support account posts. The 
post of the Chief would be redeployed to the Office from section 1, Overall 
policymaking, direction and coordination, of the programme budget. In addition, 11 
support account posts would be transferred from the Department of Field Support, 
along with 2 contractors and $4,263,500 in non-post resources; 

 (e)  Only the “strategic” ICT activities of the Information and 
Communications Technology Division, would be incorporated into the Office. These 
would include, for example, the establishment of ICT standards and architecture and 
the development and implementation of major information systems to be shared 
across the Organization; 

 (f) The Office would have a coordination role in planning and implementing 
the ICT infrastructure, including, for example, reviewing the ICT budget proposals 
put forward by the Department of Field Support and reviewing performance and 
approving the appointments and promotions of ICT section chiefs; 

 (g) The Information and Communications Technology Division would 
continue to exercise operational control over its ICT resources at Headquarters and 
in the field. It would also operate the facilities at the United Nations Logistics Base 



 A/63/487
 

9 08-55427 
 

at Brindisi, Italy (UNLB) and site B with the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology providing “strategic oversight”; 

 (h) The Chief Information Technology Officer would exercise existing 
authority granted to the Information Technology Services Division of the Office of 
Central Support Services under Secretary-General’s bulletin ST/SGB/1998/11 to 
oversee and coordinate ICT activities of other departments and offices away from 
Headquarters; 

 (i) The Office would be treated as a separate section of the budget (sect. 36) 
under part VIII, Common support services, in the programme budget for 2008-2009; 

 (j) There would be no change in the level of resources for the biennium 
2008-2009. 
 

  Observations and comments 
 

24. The proposed organizational structure of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology is provided in the annex to the report 
(A/62/793/Add.1). The Office would comprise the Office of the Chief Information 
Technology Officer, a Strategic Management Service, an Infrastructure Management 
Service and an Application Management Division. The Committee notes that the 
proposed new organizational structure does not entail a change in the overall level 
of resources requested for the biennium 2008-2009. Upon enquiry, the Committee 
was informed that the Secretariat considered that the strategic framework approved 
for the Information Technology Services Division would continue to apply to the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology and that it was not 
necessary for the Committee for Programme and Coordination to review the 
proposal at this stage. Any programmatic changes that may be proposed for the 
Office for the biennium 2010-2011 would be subject to review by the Committee for 
Programme and Coordination prior to their consideration and approval by the 
General Assembly. 

25. Concerning the proposal to create a new budget section, the Advisory 
Committee was informed that it would facilitate the segregation of resources and 
functions under the Office of Information and Communications Technology from 
other parts of the Secretariat, given the unique nature of the reporting line, with the 
Chief reporting directly to the Deputy Secretary-General. 

26. With respect to the organizational structure, the Advisory Committee notes that 
the proposals under consideration would consolidate Organization-wide functions 
while maintaining a decentralized approach to operations. The Office of Information 
and Communications Technology would essentially comprise the current 
Information Technology Services Division of the Department of Management and 
incorporate Organization-wide activities now conducted by the Information and 
Communications Technology Division of the Department of Field Support. The 
Committee notes that some 80 per cent of ICT resources would continue to be 
controlled at the departmental level. However, the Chief Information Technology 
Officer and the Office of Information and Communications Technology would 
exercise greater coordination and oversight over the ICT infrastructure, investments 
and activities. 

27. The Advisory Committee considers that there is no single governance 
model that can be assumed to be solely appropriate for a global Organization 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 10 
 

such as the United Nations, which has many offices worldwide, including in 
remote and unstable areas, that deal with a wide range of activities and 
function under a variety of administrative and management arrangements. 
There will always be some tension regarding the degree of centralization that is 
appropriate. However, in order for decentralization to be effective, there must 
be a strong central structure to ensure a coherent, Organization-wide 
approach. 

28. The Advisory Committee was informed that the 11 support account posts 
proposed to be transferred from the Information and Communications Technology 
Division to the Office of Information and Communications Technology included 
1 P-5, 3 P-4, 4 P-3, 2 P-2 and 1 General Service posts. In addition, two contractors 
at the P-3 level would be transferred to the Office. Responsibility for the 
development and support of systems for talent management, the enterprise portal, 
enterprise identity management and rations and fuel management systems, as well as 
Galaxy, would be transferred from the Information and Communications 
Technology Division to the Office. The Information and Communications 
Technology Division would continue to be responsible for supporting the remaining 
38 systems (see annexes II and III below). 

29. The Advisory Committee considers that the transfer of the P-5 post would 
weaken the management structure of the Information and Communications 
Technology Division, which has only two P-5 posts. Given the existing capacity of 
the Information Technology Services Division, which already has 13 P-5 posts, the 
Committee is of the view that the consideration of the transfer of the post should be 
deferred until the review referred to in paragraph 14 above has been completed. 

30. The Advisory Committee emphasizes that the Chief Information 
Technology Officer and the head of the Department of Field Support should 
ensure that any changes in the structure of the Information and 
Communications Technology Division will not have a negative impact in any 
way on the support provided to field operations. Upon enquiry, the Committee 
was informed that the proposed transfer of posts from the Information and 
Communications Technology Division to the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology was intended to ensure that enterprise applications and 
infrastructure are closely aligned with the Secretariat-wide strategy. The Information 
and Communications Technology Division will continue to be responsible for field-
specific systems and activities that are integral to the operational requirements of 
field missions and will retain mission-specific ICT capabilities to provide support to 
the field.  

31. The division of labour and responsibilities between the Office of Information 
and Communications Technology and the Information and Communications 
Technology Division are set out in paragraphs 7 and 8 of the addendum 
(A/62/793/Add.1). This constitutes a step towards the implementation of the new 
functions of the Office enumerated in paragraph 35 of the main report (A/62/793) 
(see para. 21 above). In the view of the Advisory Committee, some of the 
elements listed under paragraphs 7 and 8 are vague and ambiguous and merit 
further clarification. The Committee recognizes, however, that the integration 
of some of the functions of the Information and Communications Technology 
Division into the Office of Information and Communications Technology is a 



 A/63/487
 

11 08-55427 
 

complicated process and that working methods and procedures will need to be 
worked out and formalized in the light of experience. 

32. The Advisory Committee recalls that in its resolution 60/283 the General 
Assembly decided to establish the post of Chief Information Technology Officer at 
the level of Assistant Secretary-General in the Executive Office of the Secretary-
General. In this connection, the Committee also recalls paragraph 59 of its first 
report on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2008-2009 (A/62/7).  

33. The Advisory Committee notes the placement of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology as an organizational unit reporting directly to the 
Executive Office of the Secretary-General but that is not an office within the 
Executive Office, headed by the Chief Information Technology Officer, who reports 
directly to the Deputy Secretary-General. The Chief has further responsibilities as a 
key member of several high-level committees, including the Management 
Committee, the Executive Committee on ICT and the ERP Steering Committee. The 
Advisory Committee recommends that the Secretary-General provide an 
update on such management and reporting arrangements in the context of 
performance reports and the programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011. 
In addition, the Secretary-General should be requested to provide an 
assessment of the organizational arrangements in the context of the proposed 
programme budget for 2012-2013. Furthermore, in the light of the considerable 
investments to be made for ICT infrastructure, systems and services, as well as 
the strategic importance and high risks associated with ongoing projects such 
as the implementation of ERP, the Committee is of the view that the General 
Assembly should be provided with updates on ICT activities on a regular basis.  

34. The Advisory Committee is of the view that the transfer of the Information and 
Technology Services Division from the Department of Management to the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology will have a major impact on the 
structure of the Office of Central Support Services. The structure of the Department 
of Field Support will also be affected, but to a lesser degree. Upon request, the 
Committee was provided with organization charts of the structure of the Office of 
Central Support Services and the Information and Communications Technology 
Division of the Department of Field Support (see annexes IV and V). 

35. The Advisory Committee recommends that information regarding system-
wide coordination on ICT policy and strategy with other entities of the United 
Nations be provided in the context of future budgets. It emphasizes the need for 
close cooperation and coordination among United Nations organizations in this 
matter, in particular in the area of enterprise systems. As a later adopter of 
ERP systems, the United Nations stands to benefit from the lessons learned by 
other entities of the United Nations system. The Committee further 
recommends that the Chief Information Technology Officer seek synergies and 
opportunities for collaboration in the area of ICT among the Secretariat and 
the funds, programmes and specialized agencies, since it believes that there is 
potential for the realization of significant savings from the harmonization of the 
delivery of ICT throughout the United Nations family. The Committee 
encourages the Secretary-General, as Chairman of the United Nations System 
Chief Executives Board for Coordination (CEB), to foster deeper coordination 
and collaboration among United Nations organizations in all matters related to 
information and communications technology.  



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 12 
 

36. On a related matter, the Advisory Committee was informed that a growing 
number of United Nations entities are using the services of the International 
Computing Centre (ICC) and that recent comparative studies had demonstrated the 
cost-effectiveness of the Centre. In this connection, the Committee recalls General 
Assembly resolution 2741 (XXV) of 17 December 1970 on electronic data 
processing in the organizations of the United Nations system. The Committee notes 
that there is a considerable level of technical expertise in ICC. It requests the 
Secretary-General to continue to utilize the services of the Centre in supporting 
the ICT activities of the United Nations.  

37. The Advisory Committee was provided with additional information concerning 
an initiative entitled the “ICT Fast-Forward Programme”, launched by the Chief 
Information Technology Officer in September 2008, which aims to encourage 
innovation and team collaboration among ICT personnel. The fast-forward 
initiatives are proposed by ICT units from across the Organization and are 
implemented in 90 days or less. Among the first initiatives selected for 
implementation are “ICT greening”, which aims to establish ICT policies and 
practices to reduce the waste of energy and paper supplies; “document subscription 
service”, to send automatic notification e-mails to registered users with links to the 
types of documents subscribed to as they become available in the Official Document 
System; and “iSeek global access”, to provide access to the iSeek Intranet site to 
remote United Nations offices.  
 

  Recommendations of the Advisory Committee 
 

38. In paragraph 38 of the report (A/62/793/Add.1), the Secretary-General 
requested the General Assembly to approve the proposals therein, which would 
entail the redeployment of post and non-post resources proposed for the 
establishment of the Office of Information and Communications Technology. The 
Committee recommends approval of that request subject to its observations in 
paragraph 29 above.  

39. The Advisory Committee recommends that the General Assembly endorse 
the overall approach relating to the comprehensive ICT strategy for the 
Secretariat, as contained in document A/62/793, subject to the Committee’s 
comments on the proposals.  

40. The Advisory Committee further recommends that the General Assembly 
note the Secretary-General’s intention to proceed with structural reviews and 
the rationalization and harmonization of all ICT units, including the 
Information Technology Services Division of the Department of Management, 
the Information and Communications Technology Division of the Department 
of Field Support and UNLB. The Secretary-General should be requested to 
report to the Assembly on the results of such reviews in the context of the 
proposed programme budget for 2010-2011 and other relevant budget 
proposals, including the impact on and changes proposed to the approved 
programme of work, changes in organizational structures and the realignment 
of resources that will be required (A/62/793, paras. 83 (c ) and (d)). 
 
 



 A/63/487
 

13 08-55427 
 

 III. Enterprise systems for the United Nations  
Secretariat worldwide 
 
 

41. The report of the Secretary-General (A/62/510/Rev.1) covers enterprise 
systems that are to be managed centrally for the entire Organization under the 
authority of the Chief Information Technology Officer, namely enterprise resource 
planning; enterprise content management; and customer relationship management. 

42. As mentioned in paragraph 4 above, the Advisory Committee considered a 
previous report (A/62/510) on enterprise systems during the main part of the sixty-
second session, in November 2007, and issued its report thereon (A/62/7/Add.31), 
which is before the General Assembly.  

43. The revised document includes the additional information requested by the 
Advisory Committee in its report and provides, inter alia, a more precise description 
of the functionalities of the project, a two-phase implementation strategy, a 
proposed timetable and budget estimates to the end of 2012. The resource 
requirements and timelines for the implementation of the enterprise systems were 
based on the assumption that the Secretary-General’s proposals would have been 
approved by the General Assembly at its sixty-second session, with a funding period 
starting from 1 July 2008. Since the report is to be considered by the Assembly 
during the main part of its sixty-third session, project schedules and resource 
requirements will have to be adjusted accordingly.  
 
 

 A. Enterprise resource planning  
 
 

  Background  
 

44. As discussed in paragraph 8 above, there are numerous gaps in the 
functionalities covered by IMIS. Those weaknesses have been apparent for some 
time, as noted by the Advisory Committee (see e.g., A/56/7, para. 93). The 
Committee recalls that the IMIS gap study conducted in March 2005 had confirmed 
that existing United Nations management information systems had become obsolete 
and could not adequately support the changing requirements of the Organization in 
the context of the management reform initiatives launched in response to the 2005 
World Summit Outcome (see General Assembly resolutions 60/1 and 60/283), 
including the proposed adoption of the International Public Sector Accounting 
Standards; an improved internal control regime; strengthened oversight and 
accountability; and the availability of accurate and timely information to support 
decision-making. The study had concluded that it would be more cost-effective to 
replace existing systems with a standard off-the-shelf enterprise resource planning 
product than to engage in a major upgrade of IMIS (A/60/846/Add.1). In view of 
these considerations, the Assembly decided to replace IMIS with an ERP system 
(resolution 60/283).  

45. In its report for the biennium ended 31 December 2007, the Board of Auditors 
noted that the ERP project was not only one of the Secretariat’s largest information 
technology projects, it was also one of the main drivers to make the overall 
management of the Administration more modern and uniform (see A/63/5 (Vol. I), 
chap. II, para. 125, and A/63/474, paras. 24 and 25; see also para. 57 below). The 
Board also stated its view that the report of the Secretary-General (A/62/510/Rev.1) 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 14 
 

constituted a sound basis for a decision on the ERP project. The Advisory 
Committee emphasizes that the implementation of an enterprise resource planning 
system is a major undertaking, in terms of the scope and magnitude of the project 
itself as well as its potential to transform and modernize the administrative function 
and streamline working methods across the Organization. The Committee notes that 
the project will involve all parts of the Secretariat and will affect the management of 
its operations for many years. All administrative support functions will be 
consolidated under a single integrated information system for the entire 
Organization, including peacekeeping and field missions. Among these are 
administrative functions such as programme planning, budgeting, contributions, 
performance, human resources management, payroll, procurement, asset and facility 
management, travel and reporting, as well as support functions specific to 
peacekeeping operations in the areas of logistics, transportation and fuel and rations 
systems. The Committee was informed that, at present, some 250 information 
systems Organization-wide are used to accomplish these functions, most of which 
are either to be integrated in or linked to ERP. Many of them are stand-alone 
systems that do not allow the exchange and transfer of data. 

46. In this connection, the Advisory Committee recalls that during the biennium 
2006-2007, the Office of Programme Planning, Budget and Accounts undertook an 
external review to assess the extent to which the organizational structure, staffing, 
management framework and operations fulfilled the Office’s objectives in an 
economical, efficient and effective manner. The review revealed that as a 
consequence of the Office’s deficient information systems, its business processes 
were heavily manual and time-consuming.  
 

  Project status 
 

47. In his earlier report (A/62/510), the Secretary-General had proposed to 
establish a start-up capacity for the enterprise resource planning project and to 
provide a more realistic projection of the overall costs of the project once a detailed 
inventory of functional and technical requirements, which was then under way, had 
been completed and priorities established.  

48. The Advisory Committee notes that the compilation of detailed functional 
requirements for ERP software was completed in December 2007. It was informed 
that the project director had been appointed, a temporary team had been assembled, 
comprising representatives from Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters and 
field staff, that the software selection process was at an advanced stage and that 
work on the preparation of a request for proposals for integration services was 
ongoing. The Committee notes that an interim team of 16 staff has been put in place 
through an ad hoc arrangement. 

49. As indicated in paragraphs 40 to 45 and figure II of the revised report 
(A/62/510/Rev.1), ERP is envisaged to be implemented in two waves, following a 
preparatory phase during which the system architecture and high-level business 
process re-engineering, as well as the acquisition of the ERP software and 
integration services, will be completed. The first is expected to take 30 months and 
will focus on key management priorities, including the core finance, human 
resources, procurement and asset management functions, which are also required for 
compliance with IPSAS. The second will target the remaining functionalities, 



 A/63/487
 

15 08-55427 
 

including results-based management, risk management, transportation and travel, 
over a 24-month period.  
 

  Project governance 
 

50. The Advisory Committee notes that the ERP governance structure is distinct 
from the ICT management structure discussed above. During the course of its 
hearings with the representatives of the Secretary-General, the Committee received 
additional information on the project governance structure and reporting lines (see 
A/62/510/Rev.1, paras. 28-30) as follows:  

 (a) The ERP project director will report to the USG for Management in her 
capacity as the Chairperson of the ERP Steering Committee and to the Chief 
Information Technology Officer on day-to-day project management and technology 
issues. The ERP project team and budget will be placed within the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology; 

 (b) This structure will facilitate the smooth implementation of the project by 
ensuring that both the technology and infrastructure requirements of ERP are 
managed and that the project fully meets requirements in such areas as human 
resources, accounts, budget and so on;  

 (c) In order to promote coherence and to ensure that all stakeholders are 
involved in the development of the project, user committees will be established both 
regionally and at Headquarters. Those groups will play an advisory role and ensure 
that user departments are involved in the project during the course of planning and 
implementation. 

51. An updated organization chart of the proposed governance framework of the 
ERP project shown in figure 1 of the report was provided to the Advisory 
Committee (see annex VI). 

52. The Advisory Committee believes that there is a need for clear lines of 
responsibility and accountability for the overall project and trusts that 
Secretary-General will keep such arrangements under review and make 
adjustments as appropriate, in the light of experience. 

53. In this connection, the Committee stresses that the introduction of ERP 
will have a direct impact on vast numbers of staff and information systems and 
on the Organization as a whole. It is likely that work processes, roles and 
responsibilities will undergo consequential changes. The project will require the 
full support and commitment of managers and it should be viewed as a business 
project, with priority being given to satisfying functional needs. It is therefore 
understandable that the Chairperson of the ERP Steering Committee (the 
Under-Secretary-General for Management) should have overall responsibility 
for the project. The Committee notes that the providers of support services in 
the finance, supply chain, human resources and central support areas are 
represented on the Steering Committee. It trusts that the Steering Committee 
will also provide for input from the substantive departments, which, as the end-
users of the support services, will be equally affected by the transition to ERP. 
The Committee also emphasizes that the role of ICT should not be minimized. 
ICT analysts and other staff are key players who must remain deeply involved 
in all phases of the project, including the business mapping, business process 
review and specification of customization requirements to ensure that a viable, 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 16 
 

technically sound solution is put into place. In the Committee’s view, the ERP 
project should be treated as a joint venture, driven by business process 
demands and delivered through complex information technology systems 
requiring a high level of technical expertise.  
 

  International Public Sector Accounting Standards 
 

54. As a consequence of the delay in the ERP project, the Advisory Committee 
notes that IPSAS compliance must be postponed until 2011 at the earliest. In this 
connection, the Committee notes the comments of the Board of Auditors (A/63/5 
(Vol. I), chap. II, paras. 123 and 124) regarding the need to integrate, through a joint 
master plan, the workplans of the IPSAS accounting team and the team responsible 
for the financial module of the ERP in order to better coordinate deliverables for the 
two projects. The Committee has commented on IPSAS (A/63/474, paras. 20-23) 
and has endorsed the recommendations of the Board of Auditors. The Committee 
urges the Secretary-General to take appropriate action to implement the 
Board’s recommendations expeditiously.  
 

  Other observations and recommendations 
 

55. In section II of its resolution 60/283, the General Assembly requested the 
Secretary-General to provide a detailed explanation and concrete examples of how it 
is envisaged that the proposals will enhance the effectiveness of the work of the 
Organization and address current deficiencies. In section III of his report 
(paras. 23-27), the Secretary-General provided some information on the benefits 
expected from the implementation of the ERP system in such areas as increased 
operational effectiveness and timeliness, enhanced treasury operations, higher client 
satisfaction, productivity gains and cost avoidance, as well as improved 
accountability and transparency. The Committee is of the view that investments in 
information technology should result in tangible and measurable efficiency and 
productivity gains. It therefore recommends that the Secretary-General be 
requested to identify specific objectives in this regard and to define the methods 
for measuring the impact of ERP implementation on the performance of the 
administrative functions of the Organization (see para. 69 (b) below).  

56. In his report (A/62/510/Rev.1, para. 22), the Secretary-General sets out the 
principles that will guide the ERP project, including the need to increase the 
uniformity and compatibility of business practices across the Secretariat, limit the 
extent of customization of the software, satisfy the requirements of the offices away 
from Headquarters, peace operations and other missions, and maintain open 
communication with Member States, managers and staff throughout the project. The 
Advisory Committee points out that, among the lessons learned from other 
organizations that have implemented and maintained ERP systems is that it is 
necessary to limit customization to a minimum in order to ensure cost-effectiveness 
as well as flexibility in adapting to new versions of the software as they become 
available. An overly customized ERP package is costly to design and implement, 
becomes burdensome to maintain and cannot be aligned with new technologies after 
initial implementation. While software solutions should be fully compatible with the 
business needs of the Organization, the Committee believes that administrative 
processes should be examined and adapted in line with the chosen software 
wherever possible. The Committee emphasizes that customization of the ERP 
software should be kept to a minimum, and believes that any customization 



 A/63/487
 

17 08-55427 
 

would need to be fully justified. It further expects that all the principles 
outlined in paragraph 22 of the report of the Secretary-General should be fully 
observed and reported upon. 

57. The time and budget risks inherent to the project, along with the procedures 
proposed for mitigating such risks, are specified in paragraphs 75 and 76 of the 
report. The Advisory Committee notes that the risks in this area are related to 
procedures for cross-organizational consultations and decision-making. The 
Committee emphasizes the critical importance of complying with timelines so 
as not to delay the project. As indicated in its observations on the report of the 
Board of Auditors (A/63/474, para. 25), the Committee is of the view that 
implementation of ERP requires careful monitoring, given the importance and 
significant cost of the project. Accordingly, the General Assembly should be 
kept apprised of developments in this regard. The Committee looks forward to 
future reviews by the Board as regards the preparatory process for ERP, as 
well as for IPSAS. In this connection, the Committee notes that the Secretary-
General intends to conduct a short evaluation after each project wave, and to submit 
annual progress reports for the consideration of the Assembly, including details of 
overall progress against the baseline (see A/62/510/Rev.1, para. 40). 

58. Upon request, the Advisory Committee was provided a list of United Nations 
entities having implemented ERP systems (see annex VII). The list shows that most 
of the organizations have experience of at least five years with ERP systems. The 
Committee was informed that the harmonization of ERP operational and 
administrative practices and processes are discussed in the context of the ICT 
network of the CEB High-level Committee on Management. In addition, the ERP 
project team consults on a regular basis with the United Nations Children’s Fund 
(UNICEF), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Office of the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the World Food Programme. 
During the preparatory phase of the project, those entities provided considerable 
assistance in formulating the initial plan and shared their experiences in the 
acquisition of ERP software, integration and other support services, as well as in 
business process re-engineering and project management. The Committee stresses 
that the project team should maintain liaison with their counterparts in other 
United Nations entities so as to exchange experience and best practices. 

59. The Advisory Committee notes that the ERP software will be hosted at the data 
centre at UNLB and a secondary site in Valencia, Spain, as proposed in the disaster 
recovery and business continuity project (A/62/477) (see para. 86 below). 
 

  Recommendations on resources and financing arrangements 
 

  Posts 
 

60. Regarding staffing requirements, the Secretary-General is seeking the same 
resources requested in his previous report (A/62/510). He indicates that the ERP 
project cannot be properly initiated until the project team is in place. A core project 
team would consist of 44 temporary posts (1 D-2, 6 D-1, 12 P-5, 13 P-4, 5 P-3, 
7 General Service (Other level)) (A/62/510/Rev.1, paras. 60-64). The Advisory 
Committee was informed that as the implementation of ERP progresses, it is 
expected that the functions of 18 posts would be gradually phased out during the 
second wave of implementation (see para. 49 above), as shown in table 1 below.  
 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 18 
 

  Table 1 
  Post requirements (jointly financed) 

 

Category 2008-2009 2010-2011 2012a 

Professional and above 
D-2 1 — — 
D-1 6 — (1) 
P-5 12 — (5) 
P-4/3 18 — (8) 

 Subtotal 37 — (14) 

General Service and related 
Other level 7 — (4) 

 Subtotal 7 — (4) 

 Total 44 — (18) 
 

 a Provisional, depending on the starting date of the implementation of the ERP project. 
 
 

61. The Advisory Committee recognizes the need for a dedicated capacity to 
support the implementation of the enterprise resource planning project and 
recommends approval of the Secretary-General’s staffing proposals. It requests 
that the posts be filled as required, in accordance with the needs of the project. 
 

  Estimated requirements 
 

62. The overall resource requirements for the implementation of the ERP system in 
the Secretariat over a five-year period are estimated at $285,560,600 (at current 
rates). This amount includes a contingency provision of 15 per cent of project cost, or 
$37,247,000. As noted by the Secretary-General (A/62/510/Rev.1, para. 54), pending 
the conclusion of procurement activities, this amount has not been established on the 
basis of firm contract costs for software and system integration services. It represents 
an estimate of the cost of the implementation and deployment of the ERP system, 
taking into account current market pricing, the ERP project costs of other United 
Nations organizations and advice sought from industry sources. The Advisory 
Committee notes that costs for software customization and integration services will 
be known only once the business process re-engineering phase has been completed 
and specific customization requirements have been identified and formalized.  

63. A breakdown of the overall estimate of $248,313,600, excluding the 
contingency provision, is provided in table 1 and paragraph 54 of the Secretary-
General’s report. This includes $30.0 million for software licences and 
customization, $128.7 million for integration costs, $47.9 million for project and 
change management, $37.0 million for training and $4.7 million for operational 
costs. Table 2 of the report contains a summary of overall resource requirements by 
funding period and source of funds until the end of the project. The Secretary-
General’s estimates for the current biennium were based on the assumption that the 
project would be approved by the General Assembly during its sixty-second session, 
with funding commencing from 1 July 2008. 

64. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was provided with updated 
information on the resources requested for the biennium 2008-2009, given the delay 



 A/63/487
 

19 08-55427 
 

of the project. Updated text for revised elements of paragraph 109 of the Secretary-
General’s report, containing the actions to be taken by the General Assembly, was 
also provided to the Committee and is included in annex VIII. The Committee notes 
that the revised requirements for the biennium 2008-2009 are estimated at 
$42,847,500 (at current rates), representing a significant decrease from the initial 
requirement of $119,571,300 proposed in document A/62/510/Rev.1.  

65. Tables 2 and 3 below show the revised requirement of $42,847,500 for the 
biennium 2008-2009 by component and object of expenditure respectively, as 
compared to the initial requirements set out in document A/62/510/Rev.1.  
 

  Table 2 
  Resource requirements for the enterprise resource planning project by 

component, 2008-2009 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 
 
 

Component Initiala Revised Increase/(decrease) 

Software licences and customization 14 000.0 2 525.0 (11 475.0) 
Integration costs 42 106.2 20 258.6 (21 847.4) 
Project and change management 16 306.3 10 927.5 (5 387.7) 

Training 7 048.1 1 432.7 (5 615.4) 
Operational cost 2 863.9 2 114.9 (749.0) 

 Subtotal 82 324.3 37 258.7 (45 065.6) 

Contingency provision 37 247.0 5 588.8 (31 658.19) 

 Total 119 571.3 42 847.5 (76 723.77) 
 

 a See A/62/510/Rev.1, table 2. 
 
 

  Table 3 
  Resource requirements for the enterprise resource planning project by object of 

expenditure, 2008-2009 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 
 
 

Object of expenditure Initiala Revised Increase/(decrease) 

Posts 9 323.5 7 602.5 (1 721.0) 
Other staff costs 3 776.4 3 596.0 (180.4) 

Travel of staff 3 257.0 2 031.1 (1 225.9) 
Contractual services 49 103.6 19 389.2 (29 714.4) 
General operating expenses 2 232.5 1 545.6 (686.9) 

Supplies and materials 33.0 24.0 (9.0) 
Furniture and equipment 14 598.4 3 070.3 (11 528.10) 

 Subtotal 82 324.3 37 258.7 (45 065.7) 

Contingency provision 37 247.0 5 588.81 (31 658.19) 

 Total 119 571.3 42 847.5 (76 723.77) 
 

 a See A/62/510/Rev.1, table 2. 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 20 
 

66. The prorated distribution of the revised amount of $42,847,500 among the 
various sources of funding, on the basis of financing arrangements presented in 
paragraph 79 of the report, is shown in tables 4 and 5 below respectively. 
 

  Table 4 
  Revised requirements for the enterprise resource planning project by activity and 

funding source, 2008-2009 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 
 
 

Component 
Revised 

regular budget

Revised peacekeeping 
support account 

budgeta
Revised 

extrabudgetary Total 

Software licences and customization 378.8 1 565.5 580.8 2 525.0 

Integration costs 3 038.8 12 560.3 4 659.5 20 258.6 

Project and change management 1 639.1 6 775.1 2 513.3 10 927.5 

Training 214.9 888.3 329.5 1 432.7 

Operational cost 317.2 1 311.2 486.4 2 114.9 

 Subtotal 5 588.8 23 100.4 8 569.5 37 258.7 

Contingency provision 838.3 3 465.1 1 285.4 5 588.8 

 Total 6 427.1 26 565.5 9 854.9 42 847.5 
 

 a July 2008-30 June 2009. 
 
 

  Table 5 
  Revised requirements for the enterprise resource planning project by object of 

expenditure and funding source, 2008-2009 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 
 
 

Object of expenditure 
Revised 

regular budget
Revised peacekeeping 

support accounta
Revised 

extrabudgetary Total 

Posts 1 140.4 4 713.6 1 748.6 7 602.5 

Other staff costs 539.4 2 229.5 827.1 3 596.0 

Travel of staff 304.7 1 259.3 467.2 2 031.1 

Contractual services 2 908.4 12 021.3 4 459.5 19 389.2 

General operating expenses 231.8 958.3 355.5 1 545.6 

Supplies and materials 3.6 14.9 5.5 24.0 

Furniture and equipment 460.5 1 903.6 706.2 3 070.3 

 Subtotal 5 588.8 23 100.4 8 569.5 37 258.7 

Contingency provision 838.3 3 465.1 1 285.4 5 588.8 

 Total 6 427.1 26 565.5 9 854.9 42 847.5 
 

 a 1 July 2008-30 June 2009. 
 
 



 A/63/487
 

21 08-55427 
 

67. The Advisory Committee was informed of the revised requirements just as it 
was finalizing the present report. The reductions reflect changes in the sequence of 
activity and acquisition strategies, as well as delays in the approval of the project. 
The Secretary-General now considers that it would be in the best interest of the 
Organization to complete the selection of the ERP software before proceeding with 
activities related to the acquisition of integration services rather than conducting 
those activities in a partially overlapping manner as initially envisaged. In addition, 
he proposes to break down the acquisition of integration services for the design, 
build and/or roll-out phases of the project instead of developing system integration 
proposals to cover a comprehensive range of services for the entire project at the 
outset (A/62/510/Rev.1, para. 35). According to the Secretary-General, this 
approach would allow the United Nations to develop requirements for each phase of 
the project based on the deliverables from the prior phase, thereby reducing the risk 
of cost and scope escalation. In addition, this approach would permit the selection of 
vendors with expertise in specific integration phases, for example, training of staff 
during the roll-out, thereby increasing competition. The Committee was also 
provided with an updated timeline for the project (see annex IX), which shows an 
overall six-month delay in completion of the implementation.  

68. The Advisory Committee was further informed that, as a consequence of this 
approach, the following activities and expenditures envisaged previously during 
2008-2009 would not be completed during the biennium:  

 • Software licences and customization ($11,475,000): as a result of the 
Organization’s stronger negotiation strategy with the software vendors, there 
would be limited payment for software licensing during the design phase of 
the project, and any required customizations would be initiated later in 2009. 

 • Software integration ($21,847,400): based on the above-stated approach to the 
acquisition of software integration services, there would be a significant 
reduction in the overall work-months required during the biennium 2008-2009, 
as those resources would be required during the subsequent build and roll-out 
phases. 

 • Project and change management ($5,387,700): the ERP project team would 
postpone the recruitment of its full staffing complement until July 2009 until 
the initiation of the design phase after the completion of high-level business 
re-engineering activities in the first quarter of 2009. The change management 
strategy continues to focus on an awareness campaign for the stakeholders of 
the ERP project, pending approval by the General Assembly. 

 • Training ($5,615,400): the commencement of training is dependent upon the 
acquisition of the ERP software solution, which is in the final phase of 
evaluation. 

 • Operational costs ($749,000): the above delays have a corresponding impact 
on the requirements related to general operating expenses. 

69. The Advisory Committee considers that these revisions represent a 
significant change in the strategy for the implementation of ERP as set out in 
paragraph 35 of the report. The Committee therefore recommends that the 
Secretary-General be requested to submit a revised ERP project 
implementation plan and updated budget for the consideration of the General 
Assembly in the context of its consideration of the proposed programme budget 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 22 
 

for the biennium 2010-2011. The Secretary-General should be in a position to 
update and confirm the project plan, given the appointment of the project 
director in September 2008. The revised implementation plan should also 
include the following:  

 (a) Information on the implementation of the modified ERP governance 
structure described in paragraph 50 above;  

 (b) Details on tangible benefits and productivity gains to be achieved 
through the implementation of ERP along with benchmarks for measuring progress 
towards achieving planned results; 

 (c) Details on the estimated costs for the maintenance of the existing 
application and new systems in the post-implementation phase, including the 
duration of the overlap time during which both the new and existing systems will be 
operational. 

70. The Advisory Committee recommends that, in the meantime, the 
Secretary-General be provided with sufficient resources to staff the core project 
team and to proceed with the tasks and project activities of the detailed design 
phase, as well as any other tasks that need to be performed so as not to incur 
further delays in the project schedule. Accordingly, the Committee recommends 
that the General Assembly approve the revised resources requested for the 
current biennium in the amount of $37,258,700, comprising $5,588,800 to be 
funded under the regular budget; an amount of $23,100,400 from the support 
account for peacekeeping operations for the period from 1 July 2008 to 30 June 
2009 and an amount of $8,569,800 to be provided from extrabudgetary 
resources. It should be noted that remaining requirements will be included in 
subsequent peacekeeping support account budgets. 

71. From the revised text for paragraph 109 provided to the Advisory Committee 
(see para. 64 above and annex VIII below) the Committee notes that the Secretary-
General is proposing to finance the regular budget requirements of the ERP project 
for the current biennium in the amount of $6,427,100 under budget section 28A, 
Office of the Under-Secretary-General for Management, as follows: (a) $2,346,000 
of interest accrued under the IMIS fund available as at 31 December 2007; and 
(b) $4,164,300 from the available balances in the surplus account of the United 
Nations General Fund. As noted by the Secretary-General (A/62/510/Rev.1, 
para. 82(b)), this would require the suspension of the provisions relating to the 
application of credits under regulations 3.2 (d), 5.3 and 5.4 of the Financial 
Regulations and Rules of the United Nations, which require the surrender of such 
funds. The Committee recommends approval of the Secretary-General’s 
proposals, except for the contingency provision (see para. 72 below). As such, 
the amount of $5,588,800 would be financed as follows: $2,346,000 from the 
interest accrued under the IMIS fund available as at 31 December 2007 and 
$3,242,800 from the available balances in the surplus account of the United Nations 
General Fund. The Committee recommends approval of the utilization of the 
interest accrued under the IMIS fund. It considers that the use of available 
balances in the surplus account of the United Nations General Fund and the 
unencumbered balance of the active peacekeeping operations for the financial 
period ended 30 June 2008 is a matter for a policy decision by the General 
Assembly. 



 A/63/487
 

23 08-55427 
 

72. The Advisory Committee is not recommending approval of the 
contingency provision of $5,588,810 requested by the Secretary-General. The 
Committee notes that in his original proposal (A/62/510/Rev.1), the 
Secretary-General proposed a contingency provision of $37,247,000, 
representing 15 per cent of the overall estimated project cost of $286 million to 
be financed immediately in 2008-2009, during the first biennium of the 
project’s five-year life cycle. The Committee is of the view that such a provision 
is not warranted, given the reduced scope of activities envisaged during the 
remainder of the current biennium, as well as the Secretary-General’s phased 
approach for the acquisition of integration services, which limits the risk of cost 
escalation and uncertainty (see paras. 67 and 68 above). 
 

  Multi-year special account 
 

73. The Secretary-General is requesting authorization to establish a multi-year 
special account to record income and expenditure for the ERP project. The Advisory 
Committee recalls that in its previous report (A/62/7/Add.31, para. 11) it had 
expressed reservations about such an arrangement. The Committee enquired as to 
the reasons for the Secretary-General’s resubmission of this proposal, and was 
informed that the multi-year special account would ensure that total approved 
funding would be available when required, thereby avoiding procurement delays 
due solely to the unavailability of funds. It would also provide some flexibility in 
the requisitioning of items requiring long lead times that are not always aligned to 
budget cycles. The Committee was further informed that once the project was 
completed, which is currently projected for the biennium 2012-2013, the residual 
balance in the multi-year fund would be reported to the General Assembly for its 
disposition in accordance with established practice. The special account also 
facilitates the management of different sources of funding with different funding 
periods. In the light of the explanations provided, and recognizing the need for a 
degree of flexibility in the management of the procurement process of the ERP 
software and services, the Committee recommends acceptance of the 
Secretary-General’s proposal contained in paragraph 109 (l) of document 
A/62/510/Rev.1, and subsequently confirmed (see sect. V and annex VIII below), 
to establish a multi-year special account to record income and expenditure for 
this project. The Committee reiterates its previous recommendation that 
efficient utilization and transparent reporting on the project implementation 
costs must be ensured and emphasizes the need for effective monitoring of the 
project and the submission of meaningful performance reports to the Assembly 
on a regular basis. The Committee also stresses that any substantive changes or 
modifications of the scope of the project, as well as any extension of the multi-
year special account beyond the biennium 2012-2013, should the need arise, 
would have to be authorized by the Assembly.  
 

  Cost sharing  
 

74. As indicated in paragraph 79 of the report, it is proposed to finance the ERP 
project from the main sources of funds, namely, 15 per cent from the regular budget, 
62 per cent from the peacekeeping support account and 23 per cent from the special 
accounts for programme support costs. Overhead income generated by expenditures 
relating to technical cooperation, general trust funds and reimbursement for 
administrative support provided by the Organization to extrabudgetary entities, such 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 24 
 

as UNDP and UNICEF, is credited to the special accounts for programme support 
costs. As indicated by the Secretary-General, the percentages are calculated on the 
basis of the distribution of 2008-2009 estimated resources, rather than actual 
expenditures. The Committee notes the inclusion of contributions from 
extrabudgetary sources, which it considers appropriate. It recommends 
approval of the Secretary-General’s proposal at this time. 

75. In the view of the Advisory Committee, an alternative approach would be 
to establish the cost-sharing ratio on the basis of actual expenditures rather 
than estimates, as currently proposed by the Secretary-General. In such an 
eventuality, the Committee is of the view that the Board of Auditors should be 
requested to provide a statement on the composition of the overall expenditures 
of the United Nations by funding source, on the basis of the audited financial 
statements. The Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be 
requested to explore such an alternative in future proposals. 
 
 

 B. Customer relationship management and enterprise  
content management  
 
 

76. In his report (A/62/510/Rev.1), the Secretary-General resubmitted proposals 
that had been submitted in the previous version of his report (A/62/510). The 
financial requirements were updated to reflect current rates as well as a modified 
funding period, which would commence from 1 July 2008 instead of 1 January 
2008. The observations and recommendations contained in the Committee’s related 
report (A/62/7/Add.31) remain valid. The Committee had recommended approval of 
the Secretary-General’s proposals for implementation of the customer relationship 
management and enterprise content management systems.  

77. The Advisory Committee points out, however, that, given the timing of the 
consideration of these proposals by the General Assembly (see para. 43 above), 
the funding period and resources requested for the current biennium will have 
to be adjusted accordingly. The Committee requests that updated information 
be provided to the Assembly at the time of its consideration of the proposals. 
 
 

 IV. Information and communications technology security, 
disaster recovery and business continuity for the  
United Nations Secretariat  
 
 

78. The report of the Secretary-General (A/62/477) was issued on 9 October 2007 
in response to: (a) General Assembly resolution 59/276 (section XI), in which the 
Assembly requested the Secretary-General to provide a detailed proposal for a 
global operational framework for ICT security, business continuity and disaster 
recovery, as outlined in his report on a strengthened and unified security 
management system for the United Nations; (A/59/365 and Corr.1 and Add.1 and 
Corr.1); and (b) Assembly resolution 60/266, in which the Assembly requested the 
Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive report on the proposed establishment 
of and justification for mission on site, mission in theatre and off site and off-site 
and out-of-theatre redundant data centres for disaster recovery and business 
continuity in peacekeeping missions, as well as on a secondary active 



 A/63/487
 

25 08-55427 
 

communications facility and a disaster recovery and business continuity centre for 
information technology.  

79. The report of the Secretary-General contained two sets of proposals relating 
to:  

 (a) A global operational framework for ICT infrastructure to support disaster 
recovery and business continuity for information and telecommunications systems 
for the entire Organization, including peacekeeping operations, through the 
establishment of a major centralized data centre at UNLB and one at a proposed 
secondary site in Valencia;  

 (b) The transfer of the current data centres in the Secretariat and DC-2 
Buildings in New York to a North Lawn facility and a facility in Long Island City 
during the transition phase of the capital master plan.  

80. As indicated in paragraph 4 above, the Advisory Committee initially 
considered the report of the Secretary-General during the main part of the sixty-
second session of the General Assembly in November 2007 and issued its report on 
21 December 2007 (A/62/7/Add.31). In that report the Committee recommended 
that the Secretary-General be authorized to proceed with the implementation of the 
North Lawn facility (A/62/7/Add.31, para. 34 (a)) and that he pursue his discussions 
with UNICEF, UNDP, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and the United 
Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund with a view to concluding an agreement on 
cooperative arrangements for a multi-agency joint operation at the Long Island City 
site and report thereon at the resumed sixty-second session of the Assembly 
(A/62/7/Add.31, para. 34 (b)). The Committee also reverted to the remaining 
proposals regarding the global operational framework and the requirements for the 
data centres at UNLB and the proposed secondary site in Valencia (site B) in the 
context of the detailed report on the implementation of the ERP system 
(A/62/7/Add.31, para. 33). 

81. The Advisory Committee was provided updated information on section III of 
the report of the Secretary-General (A/62/477) containing the summary of resource 
requirements and the action to be taken by the General Assembly. That information 
(see annexes X and XI) included:  

 (a) An updated table 5 from the report of the Secretary-General, with the 
summary of resource requirements by site, reflecting adjustments of funding periods 
and resource requirements as a result of the delay in implementation (see annex X);  

 (b) Revised paragraphs 119 to 123 of the report of the Secretary-General, 
containing the action to be taken by the General Assembly (see annex XI).  

In light of the latest information received (see para. 83 below), the Advisory 
Committee points out that the updates concerning the Long Island City site are no 
longer valid. 

82. Upon finalizing its report, the Advisory Committee noted the issuance of the 
report of the Secretary-General on revised estimates relating to the programme 
budget for the biennium 2008-2009 under sections 3, 17, 18, 20, 21, 27, 28C, 28D, 
28E, 28F, 28G, 33 and 35 related to business continuity management (A/63/359). 
 
 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 26 
 

 A. Long Island City site 
 
 

83. At a very late stage in its consideration of the proposals of the Secretary-
General, the Advisory Committee learned, upon enquiry, that the proposed 
Long Island City site was no longer being pursued. The Committee is 
concerned that it was not informed about this development earlier, despite the 
fact that the Secretariat was well aware that the Committee was in the process 
of reviewing reports related to ICT. In view of this change of plans, the General 
Assembly is no longer required to take any action on the resources requested 
for the Long Island data centre, in the amount of $33,942,000, including 
$20,917,600 for construction and lease costs and $13,024,400 for equipment (see 
annex X). The Committee recommends that the Assembly request the 
Secretary-General to submit a new proposal for a secondary data centre for 
United Nations Headquarters in New York, including a detailed justification of 
the reasons for the change and information on the costs already incurred in 
connection with the Long Island City site. 
 
 

 B. Site B 
 
 

84. With respect to the first set of proposals concerning the global operational 
framework for ICT infrastructure, the Advisory Committee notes from the 
Secretary-General’s report that there has been no Organization-wide approach to 
disaster recovery and business continuity (A/62/477, para. 7). With each duty station 
developing its own standards and infrastructure, few duty stations have made 
provisions for disaster recovery and business continuity, thereby exposing the 
Organization to considerable risks. In the view of the Committee this situation 
clearly demonstrates the need for a central authority under the Chief 
Information Technology Officer to set common standards, provide an 
Organization-wide perspective, optimize use of resources and improve ICT 
services.  

85. The need for a secondary active communications facility as a backup to UNLB 
is set out in the report of the Secretary-General (A/62/477, paras. 51-54). The 
Secretary-General noted that a secondary active site with full capabilities must be 
established to ensure the continuity and integrity of the core functions of the 
Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Field Support in the 
event of a catastrophic incident and to provide continuous voice, data and video 
services in cases of short-term disruptions. The Advisory Committee notes also that, 
as highlighted by the Office of Internal Oversight Services in its comprehensive 
management audit of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations (see A/60/717), at 
present the telecommunications hub and the centralized applications (including 
Galileo and Mercury) hosted at UNLB do not have a remote backup facility. The 
primary role of the site B facility will therefore be to provide backup for 
telecommunications in case of a major outage at UNLB and to avoid a catastrophic 
impact on the global operations of all field missions. The Committee notes that both 
sites would remain fully operational at all times in order to provide a seamless 
transition in case of system failure, while simultaneously facilitating the distribution 
of ICT traffic and workload during normal operations to improve performance. Each 
site would have sufficient capacity to absorb 100 per cent of the traffic in the 
eventuality of disaster at one site.  



 A/63/487
 

27 08-55427 
 

86. The Secretary-General indicated that the Organization’s enterprise applications 
such as ERP, customer relationship management and enterprise content management 
would also be hosted at UNLB and site B (A/62/477, para. 5). While the primary 
role of UNLB and site B will be to support peace operations, the ICT facilities will 
serve as a United Nations hub, providing disaster recovery and business continuity 
services to Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters and field missions.  

87. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was informed that the Government of 
Spain had offered to construct a number of customized buildings on a 40,500 square 
metre site, for the exclusive use of the United Nations, including a data centre, an 
office building and satellite bases, free of charge. Upon enquiry, the Committee was 
also informed that a host country agreement and an administrative agreement would 
be signed by the host country and the United Nations, and that the host country 
would continue to provide support under the terms of the agreement for as long as 
the agreement stayed in place. In addition, the host country would provide 
maintenance support and extend the security arrangements granted to diplomatic 
missions. All buildings would meet the security recommendations of the Department 
of Safety and Security. In this regard, the Committee encourages the Secretary-
General to seek a long-term arrangement and trusts that host country support 
would be extended on a sustained basis. 

88. The Advisory Committee was further informed the total cost of the three-year 
project to establish the secondary active communications facility is not expected to 
increase and that, since the buildings and facilities to be provided by the 
Government of Spain would be new and guaranteed against structural failure, 
maintenance costs would be minimal. The Committee understands that the 
Secretary-General selected the Valencia location among three leading proposals on 
the basis of technical advantages relating to its location and climate, which remain 
relevant (see annex XII) The Committee welcomes the generous offer of the 
Government of Spain (see also A/62/7/Add.31, para. 33). 

89. The Advisory Committee recognizes the risks of relying solely on the 
communications facilities at UNLB, as well as the need for further data storage 
facilities. It considers that ICT infrastructure and facilities for effective disaster 
recovery and business continuity should be put in place in order to ensure that 
the Secretariat will be able to respond effectively to emergency situations and 
to protect its communications capability. It recommends approval of the 
Secretary-General’s proposal to host the secondary active communications 
facility at Valencia, as requested in the updated paragraph 122 (a) of the report 
of the Secretary-General (A/62/477) (see annex XI). 
 

  Overall estimate  
 

90. The Secretary-General indicates that site B will be fully established over a 
three-year period (A/62/477, para. 80). The Advisory Committee was informed that 
the project is expected to be completed by 31 December 2011, subject to its 
approval by the General Assembly at its sixty-third session. The updated, overall 
requirements proposed for the implementation of disaster recovery and business 
continuity at UNLB and site B over the three-year period under the regular budget 
and the peacekeeping support account is shown in table 6 below. 
 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 28 
 

  Table 6 
Overall estimate for UNLB and site B 
 
 

Regular budget     

  2008-2009a 5 030 400 

  2010-2011  6 219 000 

 Subtotal 2008-2011 11 249 400 

Peacekeeping support account      

  1 July 2008 to 30 June 2009a 149 400 

  1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010 2 108 000 

  1 July 2010 to 30 June 2011 4 759 400 

  1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012 2 800 700 

 Subtotal 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2012 9 817 500 

 Grand total  21 066 900 
 

 a Subject to its approval by the General Assembly at its sixty-third session, the three-year 
project is expected to finish by 31 December 2011. 

 
 

91. As indicated in the Secretary-General’s report (A/62/477, para. 74), the overall 
amount of $11,249,400 requested under the regular budget encompasses the 
equipment, software and services required to implement replication and disaster 
recovery capabilities at both UNLB and site B for the Secretariat and offices away 
from Headquarters. It also includes a yearly recurrent amount of $2,338,500 
requested for communications infrastructure and links between the offices away 
from Headquarters and site B, as well as for the costs for maintenance of the 
equipment. The amount of $9,817,500, including post and non-post resources, 
requested under the peacekeeping support account over a three-year period ending 
31 December 2011 is required to establish site B. The Advisory Committee was also 
informed that that amount includes an estimated $155,000 for maintenance of the 
buildings and grounds over the three-year period. A summary of costs by object of 
expenditure is provided in the report of the Secretary-General (A/62/477, table 1).  

92. Details on staffing requirements over the three-year period during which site B 
is to be established are provided in the report of the Secretary-General (A/62/477, 
para. 80 and table 2). The Secretary-General indicated that two posts (1 P-5, 
1 General Service-Other level) were required under the support account for 
peacekeeping operations during the first year of the project (see para. 94 below) and 
that additional posts would be required subsequently during the second and third 
years of the project to provide management and operational support as the facility 
was being established as a global ICT hub. As shown in the report of the Secretary-
General (see A/62/477, table 2), the total staffing requirements proposed under the 
support account would grow from two posts during the first year, to a total of 11 
posts in the second year and 22 posts in the third year. The Secretary-General 
indicated that those requirements would be proposed under future support account 
budgets.  
 



 A/63/487
 

29 08-55427 
 

  Resource requirements 
 

93. The following posts are requested to for the management and operations of the 
global operational framework:  

 (a) Two P-5 posts under section 28D of the regular budget for Senior 
Disaster Recovery/Business Continuity Officers, one at UNLB and one at site B, 
with specialized skills to deal with the implementation and management of the 
disaster recovery and business continuity strategy and provide services to the United 
Nations Secretariat as a whole (A/62/477, para. 79);  

 (b) One P-5 post under the peacekeeping support account, responsible for the 
establishment and commissioning of site B, including the planning, implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation of all site B project activities. 

94. The Advisory Committee was informed that the General Service post initially 
requested under the peacekeeping support account to provide administrative support 
to the project at site B (A/62/477, para. 80; see para. 92 above) would no longer be 
required. The Committee recommends approval of the Secretary-General’s 
proposals as described in paragraph 93 above. 

95. The Advisory Committee notes that the P-5 post for site B will be supported 
from within resources approved for the same period for UNLB for the period ending 
30 June 2009. It will be proposed for inclusion as an additional post in the proposed 
budget for the support account for the period 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010. 

96. With respect to the Secretary-General’s proposals related to the 
establishment of the secondary site, the Advisory Committee recommends that 
the Secretary-General be authorized to proceed with the implementation of the 
site B facility. Accordingly, it recommends that the General Assembly:  

 (a) Approve the additional resource requirements under the regular 
budget for the biennium 2008-2009 of $5,030,400, comprising $5,009,200 under 
section 28D, Office of Central Support Services, and $21,200 under section 35, 
Staff assessment, to be offset by an equivalent amount under income section 1, 
Income from staff assessment;  

 (b) Take note of the intention to meet the estimated requirements of 
$149,400 for the establishment of the secondary active telecommunications 
facility at Valencia (site B) for the period from 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2009 
from within resources approved for the same period for UNLB. 
 
 

 V. Updates to the report of the Secretary-General on 
information and communications technology: enterprise 
systems for the United Nations worldwide 
 
 

97. Upon request, the Advisory Committee was provided with updated text (see 
annex VIII) for elements in paragraph 109 of the report of the Secretary-General 
(A/62/510/Rev.1) setting out the actions to be taken by the General Assembly to 
reflect revised requirements for the ERP project for the biennium 2008-2009 (see 
para. 64 above). 
 
 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 30 
 

 A. Updates to paragraph 109 relating to the actions to be taken by the 
General Assembly 
 
 

98. In the updated text, paragraphs 109 (a) through (d) of the report of the 
Secretary-General would remain unchanged. The subsequent paragraphs would be 
adapted (see annex VIII). 
 
 

 VI. Updates to the report of the Secretary-General on 
information and communications technology security, 
disaster recovery and business continuity for the  
United Nations 
 
 

 A. Update to table 5  
 
 

99. Upon request, the Advisory Committee was provided with updated information 
on section III of the report of the Secretary-General on ICT security, disaster 
recovery and business continuity (A/62/477) containing the summary of resource 
requirements and action to be taken by the General Assembly (see para. 81 above). 
The information included an updated table 5 of the report, with the summary of 
resource requirements by site, reflecting adjustments of funding periods and 
resource requirements as a result of the delay in the implementation (see annex X). 

100. The breakdown of resource requirements of $11,249,400 under the regular 
budget for proposed site B, by budget section was also provided, as follows: 
 

  Table 7 
Resource requirements for proposed site B 
 
 

Regular budget 

Budget section 
2008-2009

requirements
2010-2011 

requirements 

Section 28D, Office of Central Support Services 5 009 200 6 176 400 

Section 35, Staff assessment 21 200 42 600 

 Total 5 030 400 6 219 000 
 
 

 B. Updates to paragraphs 119 to 123 relating to the actions to be 
taken by the General Assembly 
 
 

101. The Advisory Committee also received updates to paragraphs 119 to 123 of the 
report of the Secretary-General on action to be taken by the General Assembly (see 
annex XI). 

 



 A/63/487
 

31 08-55427 
 

Annex I 
 

  Information and communications technology personnel at the United Nations Secretariata  
(As of September 2008) 
 
 

Department/office D P FS/L GS
Total 

international Local UNV ICC 
Contractual 

staff Total

Department of Management         191

Information Technology 
Support Division 5 74  71 150       150

Procurement Division  2  2        4

Office of Human Resources 
Management  8  4 12       12

Office of Programme 
Planning, Budget and 
Accounts 1 14  10 25       25

Department of Field Support and field missions         2 753

Information and 
Communications Technology 
Division: Headquarters 2 28  16 46      79 125

Department of Field Support: 
field missionsb 2 63 556 20 641 887 107 79 899 2 613

Department of Field Support: 
others 0 9 0 6 15       15

Other departments/offices        110

Department of Economic and 
Social Affairsc  5  1 6       6

Department for General 
Assembly and Conference 
Management  8  22 30       30

Department of Political 
Affairs  4  3 7      3 10

Department of Public 
Information  2  5 7       7

Office for the Coordination of 
Humanitarian Affairs  6  13 19 11      30

Office of the United Nations 
High Commissioner for 
Human Rights  8  16 24      1 25

Office of Disarmament 
Affairs     1 2       2

Regional commissions           184

Economic Commission for 
Europe  5  3 8      1 9

Economic Commission for 
Africa  15 2 28 45 3     49 97

Economic Commission for 
Latin America and the 
Caribbean  5  17 22      8 30



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 32 
 

Department/office D P FS/L GS
Total 

international Local UNV ICC 
Contractual 

staff Total

Economic and Social 
Commission for Asia and the 
Pacific  5  14 19      6 25

Economic and Social 
Commission for Western Asia  2  6 8 6     9 23

International Criminal Tribunal 
for Rwanda  7 24 27 58      10 68

United Nations Office at Geneva  33  55 88      14 102

United Nations Office at Nairobi  12  38 50 1      51

 Total 10 316 582 378 1 286 908 107 79 1 079 3 459
 

Abbreviations: D, Director; FS, Field Service; GS, General Service and related category; ICC, International 
Computing Centre; L, project personnel; P, Professional category; UNV, United Nations Volunteers. 

 a The following did not submit ICT staffing information: the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, the 
Department of Safety and Security, the Office of Internal Oversight Services, the Office of Legal Affairs, the 
International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, the United Nations Office at Vienna and the United Nations 
Office on Drugs and Crime. Data collected from United Nations departments, offices and field missions as 
part of the ICT activities survey conducted in August and September 2008. 

 b Department of Field Support: field missions did not include the following: United Nations Mission in Liberia 
(UNMIL), United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO), United Nations 
Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG), United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL), United 
Nations Regional Centre for Preventive Diplomacy for Central Asia, African Union-United Nations Hybrid 
Operation in Darfur (UNAMID), United Nations Peace-building Support Office in the Central African 
Republic (BONUCA) and United Nations Integrated Office in Sierra Leone (UNIOSIL). 

 c Partial amount provided. 



 A/63/487
 

33 08-55427 
 

Annex II 
 

  Activities to be transferred from the Information and 
Communications Technology Division of the Department of Field 
Support to the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology 
 
 

Name Description 

Talent management  New enterprise system to better manage the full lifecycle of 
recruitment and workforce planning for departments and 
field missions (in planning/design phase) 

Enterprise portal New, definitive, centralized source for secure self-service 
access to integrated information, data, knowledge and 
applications (procurement initiated) 

Enterprise identity management 
system 

New central repository for secure and effective identity 
management to simplify user administration for information 
and communications technology (ICT) resources using 
authentication rules and authorization privileges that can be 
managed efficiently and confidently. Once implemented the 
enterprise identity management system will allow users to 
gain access to multiple information and communications 
technology resources with a single sign-on (login). The 
system will support the implementation of several other 
enterprise management systems (commercial off-the-shelf 
software: implementation planning begun) 

Rations management system New automated system for the management and monitoring 
of rations and related operations in field missions (in 
procurement) 

Fuel management  New system to automate the management and monitoring of 
fuel use in field missions. The system will mitigate waste 
and loss and enable the review of vendor performance, 
contract compliance and improved negotiations on new 
contracts (in procurement) 

Galaxy Galaxy (e-Staffing) is the existing enterprise system for the 
recruitment of staff. Support for the Galaxy system includes 
maintenance and functional improvements (operational) 

 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 34 
 

Annex III 
 

  Tools, applications and systems supported by the 
Information and Communications Technology Division of 
the Department of Field Support 
 
 

Name Description  

Audit recommendations tracking 
system 

Facilitates the tracking of Department of Peacekeeping 
Operations (DPKO)/Department of Field Support (DFS) 
audit recommendations and resulting actions 

Aviation safety database Supports the creation of standardized reports used by 
Aviation Safety Officers at mission 

DPKO/DFS telephone directory Web-based stand-alone centralized telephone directory of 
peacekeeping personnel worldwide that enables users to 
search for contact information and presentation of 
information based on the user’s location — i.e., correct 
relevant country and tie line codes as well as reverse 
search, Google such as easy search and search by 
organization structure 

Board of Inquiry repository Searchable repository of Board of Inquiry documentation 
and actions. Also provides statistical information on 
Board of Inquiries activities worldwide and their status 

Fourth Committee website Serves as a comprehensive repository of the Special 
Political and Decolonization (Fourth) Committee’s 
documents and drafts, providing global access to the 
members of the Fourth Committee, for whom it is a 
reference source 

Special Committee on Peacekeeping 
Operations website 

Provides authorized representatives with information to 
assist in the planning and support of the Committee’s 
activities and the production of official reports. Includes a 
repository of briefing materials and relevant guidance. 
Accessible to members of the Special Committee on 
Peacekeeping Operations over the Internet using secure 
login 

Contingent-owned equipment data 
repository and reporting 

Provides the Contingent-owned Equipment Unit with 
repository and reporting data to support analysis of 
current and past performance of contributing countries in 
meeting obligations set out in memorandums of 
understanding 

Communities of practice: best 
practices; conduct and discipline; rule 
of law; civil affairs; gender; property 
management; risk management; 
planning; fuel management  

A collaboration system for subject matter experts at 
Department of Peacekeeping Operations missions as well 
as peacekeeping partners. Provides mediated electronic 
forums where members can ask each other questions, 
exchange information, build up a shared library of useful 
documents and find counterparts and subject matter 
experts at other field missions 



 A/63/487
 

35 08-55427 
 

Name Description  

Contingent-owned equipment 
database 

Facilitates the management and verification of contingent-
owned equipment for self-sustainment of troop-
contributing countries 

Cyberark Supports storage and transmission of classified 
information using highly secure technologies 

DFS: contract database Contract reference database for the administration of 
contracts in field missions 

DPKO: Intranet and guidance 
repository 

Provides a central repository of information on 
peacekeeping as well as for doctrine (policy, procedures 
and guidelines). The site also provides dynamic 
interchange of information between the United Nations 
Secretariat and field missions 

DPKO: reference library Reference library on standard operating procedures, 
manuals, etc. 

Enterprise feedback management 
system  

Web-based systems to create, deploy and manage surveys 
as well as analyse their results. Users include 34 
administrators and more than 10,000 survey recipients  

ESTARS SMART and situation report 
repository 

Supports the secure transmission of situation reports and 
other sensitive communications between Headquarters and 
the field missions 

ESTARS suite  Supports team planning and agenda management for the 
Office of the Under-Secretary-General 

External contacts database Centralized, web-enabled repository of the Office of the 
Under-Secretary-General of DPKO; used to manage 
external media and information contacts and to track 
requests for information from the Office of the Under-
Secretary-General 

Fleet management Provides functionality for effective fleet management 
Funds monitoring tool  Web-based financial monitoring tool used by 

Headquarters and field mission finance staff that 
consolidates near real-time financial data from 
Headquarters and four external financial systems to assist 
and support financial planning and decision-making 

Galileo Web-based, centrally managed, automated inventory 
management system that facilitates supply-chain 
management and strategic stock deployment by providing 
accurate inventory records for DPKO field operations 

Groove Commercial collaboration software providing a suite of 
tools to share information and manage activities within 
and between groups. Secure/encrypted storage and 
transmission of information. User groups include field 
satellite engineers and ICT network administrators as well 
as advance field mission assessment teams 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 36 
 

Name Description  

Service desk and service pages Service desk tool for DFS/DPKO and the Helpdesk of the 
United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy (UNLB) 
to record and manage all service requests related to 
information technology 

Local committees on contracts/ 
Headquarters Committee on 
Contracts tracking database 

Tracks the activities of the local committees on contracts 
and the Headquarters Committee on Contracts 

Logistics Support Division: public 
outreach website 

Public website that highlights the work of the Logistics 
Support Division and promotes job opportunities with a 
focus on achieving gender balance 

MARS correspondence management 
system 

Manages the document lifecycle and distribution for 
DPKO/DFS correspondence and ancillary documentation 

MATRIX time and attendance system Manages time and attendance of DPKO/DFS staff. Also 
used in several field missions 

Mercury 2 Web-based system that automates procurement workflow 
for goods and services for DPKO/DFS field operations 

Misconduct tracking system  Web-based system to track and report allegations and 
cases of misconduct in the DPKO/DFS field missions. 
Information is shared with the Office of Internal Oversight 
Services to support field investigations 

Mission electronic fuel accounting 
system  

Web-based system providing functionalities to support 
planning, consumption and inventory control of fuel in 
field missions. In addition, analysis and reporting, 
contract administration, invoice matching and budgeting 
activities are supported 

Mission lifecycle management (road 
map) 

Provides a central data collection facility from missions to 
assist DFS management, logistics operations, and 
Headquarters specialists in coordinating and monitoring 
mission activities 

Public websites of missions 
(United Nations Mission in the 
Central African Republic 
(MINURCAT), African Union-United 
Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur 
(UNAMID), United Nations Mission 
in Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE), 
United Nations Mission in the Sudan 
(UNMIS), United Nations Integrated 
Mission in Timor-Leste (UNMIT), 
United Nations Peacebuilding 
Support Office in Guinea-Bissau 
(UNOGBIS) and United Nations 
Office for West Africa (UNOWA)) 

Mission websites used to communicate the purpose and 
activities and key information about a mission to the 
general public 



 A/63/487
 

37 08-55427 
 

Name Description  

Nucleus Web-based recruitment and post management application 
used by the Field Personnel Division of DFS to 
compliment Galaxy functionality in support of the 
recruitment of field staff 

Operational reporting system  Provides a series of integrated technologies to structure, 
aggregate and display information in a secure and 
effective manner 

Peacekeeping Best Practices Section: 
public website 

Research tool for members of the public interested in 
peacekeeping knowledge. It is a central location for the 
peacekeeping community to access and share current 
information 

Software assets management system  System to manage, monitor and track software assets for 
DPKO/DFS field missions, including the management and 
tracking of licences 

Travel authorization database Automates and tracks the requests for authorization of 
travel of DPKO/DFS staff 

Videoconference management system Web-based system used to reserve and manage requests 
for videoconferencing services as well as to coordinate 
with required videoconference resources at missions 

Written exercise system  Publicly accessible, centralized, web-based tool that 
provides features and functionalities to manage written 
exercises used in a recruitment process of new 
DPKO/DFS staff members at Headquarters and for 
deployment to field missions 

 



 
 

A
/63/487 

 

38 
08-55427

Annex IV 
 

  Revised organization chart of the Department of Management/Office of Central 
Support Services 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Abbreviations: ASG, Assistant Secretary-General; D, Director; GS (OL), General Service (Other level); GS (PL), General Service 
(Principal level); TC, Trades and Crafts. 

 a The Director of the Facilities and Commercial Services Division and the Chief of the Facilities Management Service report to 
 the Executive Director/Assistant Secretary-General for the capital master plan on issues relating to facilities  management 

 services and to the ASG of the Central Support Services on issues relating to commercial activities/services. 

Special Services Section 

  RB   XB 
1 P-4 1 GS (PL) 
1 P-3 14 GS (OL) 
1 P-2 
2 GS (PL) 
63 GS (OL) 

Assistant Secretary-General 

RB 
1 ASG 

Archives and Records 
Management Section 

  RB      XB 
1 P-5 1 P-4 
2 P-4  3 P-3 
2 P-3  1 P-2 
1 GS (PL) 2 GS (OL) 
12 GS (OL) 

United Nations Postal 
Administration 

RB 
1P-5 

1 P-4 
6 GS (OL) 

32 GS (OL) 

Commercial Activities 
Service 

RB 
1 D-1 

Facilities Management 
Servicea 

  RB XB 
1 D-1  1 P-2 
3 P-5 
6 P-4 
2 P-3 
3 P-2 
3 GS (PL) 
48 GS (OL) 
81 TC 

Facilities and Commercial 
Services Divisiona 

RB 
1 D-2 

Garage 
administration 

RB 
2 GS (OL) 

Travel and Transportation 
Section 

  RB XB 
1 P-5 7 GS (OL) 
2 P-4 3 TC 
2 GS (PL) 
22 GS (OL) 
18 TC 

Office of the 
Assistant  

Secretary-General 

RB 
1 P-5 
1 P-4 

2 GS (OL) 

Procurement Division 

RB XB 
1 D-2 1 D-1 
1 D-1 4 P-5 
1 P-5 17 P-4 
1 P-4 19 P-3 
5 P-3 4 P-2 
3 P-2 1 GS (PL) 
26 GS (OL) 22 GS (OL)



 
 

 

A
/63/487

08-55427 
39

Annex V 
 

  Revised organization chart of the Information and Communications 
Technology Division of the Department of Field Support 

 
 

  (as of 1 January 2009) 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

Abbreviations: D, Director; P, Professional; GS (OL), General Service (Other level); GS (PL), General Service (Principal level); 
RB, regular budget; SA, peacekeeping support account. 

 

Office of the Director 
SA 

1 D-2 
1 P-4 

1 GS (OL) 

Field Communications Section 

RB  SA 
1 P-3  1 P-5 
  2 P-4 
  3 P-3 

     1 GS (PL) 
     4 GS (OL) 

Field Communications and 
Information Technology 

Operations Service 

 RB    SA 
   1 D-1 
   1 GS (OL) 

WAN/LAN 
Operations Section 

SA 
  3 P-4 
  3 P-3 
  3 GS (PL) 
  1 GS (OL) 

Field Information  
Systems Unit 

RB  SA 
1 P-2  1 P-4 

 1 GS (OL) 

Systems Architecture and 
ICT Security Unit 

RB  SA 
  1 P-4 

 1 P-3 
 1 GS (PL) 
 1 GS (OL) 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 40 
 

Annex VI 
  Updated organization chart of the proposed governance 

framework of the enterprise resource planning projecta 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 
 

Abbreviations: ASG, Assistant Secretary-General; BPR, business process re-engineering; CITO, Chief Information Technology 
Officer; DFS, Department of Field Support; DM, Department of Management; HR, Human resources; OAH, offices away 
from Headquarters; OCSS, Office of Central Support Services; OHRM, Office of Human Resources Management; OPPBA, 
Office of Programme Planning, Budget and Accounts; SME, subject matter expert; USG, Under-Secretary-General. 

 a See A/62/510/Rev.1, Figure I. 

Management 
Committee 

Chair: USG/DM 

Business Owner  
HR 

ASG/OHRM 

Business Owner  
FINANCE 

ASG/OPPBA 
 

CITO 
 

OAHs 
Business Owner  

Supply Chain 
USG, ASG/DFS 

Business Owner  
Central Support 

Services 
ASG/OCSS 

 

A
dvisory G

roups

 
Change 

management 

 
Process 

management 

 
Project 

manager 

HR Team 
Team Leader 

 
 

BPR 
 
 

SMEs 
 
 

ICT Support 
 
 

Implementation 
Support 

Supply Chain 
Team 

Team Leader 

Central Support 
Services Team 
Team Leader 

 
Technology 
management 

 
Administrative 
management 

Finance Team 
Team Leader 

 
 

BPR 
 
 

SMEs 
 
 

ICT Support 
 
 

Implementation 
Support 

 
BPR 

 
 

SMEs 
 
 

ICT Support 
 
 

Implementation 
Support 

 
BPR 

 
 

SMEs 
 
 

ICT Support 
 
 

Implementation 
Support 

Business 
processes 

Day-to-day
management and 

technology 

ERP Steering Committee 

ERP Project Team

Functional areas 



 A/63/487
 

41 08-55427 
 

Annex VII 
 

  Entities of the United Nations system that have implemented 
enterprise resource planning systems 
 
 

Organization ERP system software 
Start of 
implementation 

Food and Agriculture Organization of 
the United Nations 

Oracle/PeopleSoft 1999 

International Labour Organization Oracle/PeopleSoft 2001 

International Maritime Organization SAP 2003 

International Telecommunication 
Union 

SAP 1985 

United Nations Development 
Programme 

Oracle/PeopleSoft 2002 

United Nations Population Fund Oracle/PeopleSoft 2003 

United Nations High Commissioner 
for Refugees 

Oracle/PeopleSoft 2002 

United Nations Children’s Fund SAP 1997 

World Food Programme SAP 1997 

World Health Organization Oracle 2004 

World Intellectual Property 
Organization 

Oracle/PeopleSoft 2002 

World Meteorological Organization Oracle 2005 

World Trade Organization Oracle 1998 

United Nations Educational, Scientific 
and Cultural Organization 

SAP 2000 

International Monetary Fund PeopleSoft 1994 
 
 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 42 
 

Annex VIII 
 

  Updated paragraph 109 of document A/62/510/Rev.1 
 
 

109. The General Assembly is requested: 
 

  Regular budget 
 

 (e) To approve an amount of $6,427,100 under section 28A, Office of the 
Under-Secretary-General for Management, and $83,200 under section 35, Staff 
assessment, to be offset by an equivalent amount under income section 1, Income 
from staff assessment, of the programme budget for the biennium 2008-2009; 

 (f) To approve the utilization of an amount of $2,346,000 of interest accrued 
under the Integrated Management Information System Fund available at 
31 December 2007 for the requirements of the ERP project; 

 (g) To decide that for the biennium 2008-2009 to meet the three projects, the 
provisions for the application of credits under regulations 3.2 (d), 5.3 and 5.4 of the 
Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations shall be suspended in respect 
of the amount of $4,164,300 gross ($4,081,100 net), which otherwise would have to 
be surrendered pursuant to those provisions; 

 (h) To note that the future remaining requirements in the estimated amount 
of $43,110,300 gross ($42,121,400 net) for the implementation of ERP, customer 
relationship management and enterprise content management would be considered 
in the context of the proposed programme budget for the relevant biennium; 
 

  Peacekeeping operations support account 
 

 (i) To approve the additional peacekeeping operations support account 
requirements in the amount of $26,843,600 gross ($26,565,500 net) for the period 
from 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2009 to meet the requirements of the ERP, enterprise 
content management and customer relationship management projects as contained in 
the present report; 

 (j) To decide that the provisions for the application of credits under 
regulation 5.3 of the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations shall be 
suspended in respect of the amount of $26,843,600 gross ($26,565,500 net), 
representing part of the unencumbered balance of the active peacekeeping 
operations for the financial period ended 30 June 2008, which otherwise would have 
to be surrendered pursuant to those provisions; 

 (k) To decide to apply the amount of $26,843,600 gross ($26,565,500 net), to 
be prorated among the unencumbered balances of the active peacekeeping 
operations for the financial period ended 30 June 2008, to meet the additional 
peacekeeping operations support account requirements in respect of the ERP, 
enterprise content management and customer relationship management projects; 

 (l) To note that the future remaining requirements in the estimated amount 
of $172,134,000 gross ($167,980,700 net) will be included in subsequent 
peacekeeping support account requirements for the financial periods until 2012; 
 



 A/63/487
 

43 08-55427 
 

  Extrabudgetary resources 
 

 (m) To note that an estimated amount of $65,679,000 of the total ERP project 
cost would be financed from extrabudgetary resources, of which an amount of 
$9,854,900 relates to the biennium 2008-2009; 

 (n) To authorize the Secretary-General to establish a multi-year special 
account to record income and expenditures for this project. 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 44 
 

Annex IX 
 

  Updated timeline for the enterprise resource 
planning projecta 
 
 

 

 a See A/62/510/Rev.1, figure II. 
 b Talent management commences prior to wave 1. 

 
 

 

• Contracts for enterprise 
resource planning (ERP) 
software and system 
integration services 
• Project management 
office 
• System architecture 
• High-level business 
process re-engineering 

• Fast-tracked priorities: talent 
management;b procurement; 
limited self-service 
• Support Institute for 
International Public Sector 
Accounting Standards (IPSAS) 
compliance, including:  

• Core financials; budget 
allocation and execution; 
programme planning; cost 
accounting; trust funds; grants
• Attendance and leave; 
staffing tables and posts; 
appointment and 
administration of staff not on 
Integrated Management 
Information System (IMIS) 
payroll 
• Assets; facilities; 
inventories; related staff costs; 
contract management 

• Remaining functionalities, 
including: 

• Strategic 
management; budgeting; 
results-based 
management; risk 
management; resource 
mobilization; project 
management 
• Remaining human 
resources, finance, 
supply chain and central 
support functionalities 
• Global transportation 
management 

Preparatory phase Project: Wave 1  
30 months 

2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 

Project: Wave 2 
  24 months 

Adoption of the proposal 
by the General Assembly 

2013 

Project timeline 



 A/63/487
 

45 08-55427 
 

Annex X 
 

  Updated table 5 of document A/62/477 
 
 

Table 5 
Summary of resource requirements by site 

 
 

 Regular budget Peacekeeping budget 

 

2008-2009 
estimate 

(before 
recosting) 

2010-2011 
estimate 

(before 
recosting) 

2008-2011 
estimate

(before 
recosting)

1 July 2008 
to 

30 June 2009

1 July 2009 
to 

30 June 2010

1 July 2010 
to 

30 June 2011

1 July 2011  
to  

30 June 2012 

1 July 2008 
to 

30 June 2012
Total 

per site

Site (1) (2) (3)=(1)+(2) (4) (5) (6) (7) 
(8)=(4)+(5)+

(6)+(7) (9)=(3)+(8)

Proposed site B: 
Valencia 5 030.4 6 219.0 11 249.4 149.4 2 108.0 4 759.4 2 800.7 9 817.5 21 066.9

Long Island City: 
equipment 8 666.4 1 593.8 10 260.2 2 166.6 398.4 199.2 — 2 764.2 13 024.4

North Lawn: 
equipment 5 716.4 1 094.9 6 811.3 1 429.1 273.7 136.9 — 1 839.7 8 651.0

Long Island City: 
construction and 
lease costs 13 584.1 3 150.1 16 734.2 3 395.9 787.5 — — 4 183.4 20 917.6

 Total 32 997.3 12 057.8 45 055.1 7 141.0 3 567.6 5 095.5 2 800.7 18 604.8 63 659.9
 
 

 

 



A/63/487  
 

08-55427 46 
 

Annex XI 
 

  Updated paragraphs 119 to 123 of document A/62/477 
 
 

  Action to be taken by the General Assembly: regular budget 
 
 

119. The General Assembly is requested to approve the additional resource 
requirements for the biennium 2008-2009 of $22,456,500 under section 28D, Office 
of Central Support Services, $10,434,000 under section 32, Construction, alteration, 
improvement and major maintenance, and $106,800 under section 35, Staff 
assessment, to be offset by an equivalent amount under income section 1, Income 
from staff assessment. 

120. The General Assembly is requested to note that an additional provision of 
$12,057,800 would be required in the context of the proposed programme budget for 
the biennium 2010-2011. 

121. The General Assembly is also requested to approve the establishment of two 
posts at the P-5 level under section 28D, Office of Central Support Services. 
 
 

 III. Action to be taken by the General Assembly: peacekeeping 
 
 

122. The actions to be taken by the General Assembly in connection with the 
financing of the secondary active communications facility are: 

 (a) To approve the proposal by the Government of Spain to host the 
secondary active communications facility at Valencia; 

 (b) To take note of the intention to meet the estimated requirements of 
$149,400 for the establishment of the secondary active telecommunications facility 
at Valencia (site B) for the period from 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2009 from within 
resources approved for the same period for UNLB. 

123. The actions to be taken by the General Assembly in connection with the 
peacekeeping operations share of the Long Island City and North Lawn data centres 
are: 

 (a) To take note of the cost-sharing arrangements between the regular budget 
and the budget of the support account for peacekeeping operations; 

 (b) To also take note of the additional requirement of $6,991,600 towards the 
share of the design and rental costs of the North Lawn and Long Island City data 
centres and to appropriate the prorated share of these requirements in accordance 
with the funding mechanism for the support account for peacekeeping operations 
approved in paragraph 3 of General Assembly resolution 50/221 B. 

 



 A/63/487
 

47 08-55427 
 

Annex XII 
 

  Technical advantages of the Valencia, Spain, location for site B 
 
 

 The Valencia, Spain, location offers a number of technical advantages based 
mainly on its location and climate. A listing of these advantages is provided below. 
These advantages are still relevant. 

 Atmospheric gaseous absorption: locations at low elevation angle have 
higher absorption due to a longer effective path through the atmosphere. All 
elevation angles at Valencia are above the 10 degrees threshold recommended by the 
International Telecommunications Satellite Organization (INTELSAT) and not 
affected by this phenomenon. In Finland, C Band INTELSAT IS 907 will be affected 
due to the low elevation angle at the proposed location, resulting in higher 
investment and operating costs. 

 Terminal G/T degradation: when it rains, the antenna picks up additional 
noise, increasing the system noise affecting emission quality in the KU band 
antennas. Precipitation at the Valencia location is at the same level and zone as the 
United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy (UNLB) and hence no problems are 
foreseen. In Finland, precipitation is higher at the proposed location, resulting in the 
possibility of signal fade due to heavy rain. 

 Snow and ice: snow and ice build-up in the antenna reflector can be a 
problem. Snow and ice generally attenuate the signal less than rain, but heavy snow 
can obliterate the signal. Snow and ice is not an issue in Valencia. In Finland, there 
is high snow and ice activity at the proposed location. De-icing systems and 
radomes (weatherproof enclosures used to protect antennas) would be needed, which 
would raise operating and maintenance costs. 

 Path refraction: path refraction is significant at low antenna elevation angles, 
requiring larger and costlier antennas to overcome this phenomenon. All different 
operational transponders are above the minimum threshold recommended by 
INTELSAT in Valencia. In Finland, the transponders 22, 38, and 86 on IS 907 will 
be more susceptible to this phenomenon in the proposed location. Higher gain 
antennas are required, resulting in higher operating costs. 

 Beam spreading loss: at low elevation angles, the refractive index of the 
earth’s atmosphere causes the beam to spread out, causing losses in the effective 
gain. No serious problems are foreseen at the Valencia location since all elevation 
angles are above the threshold. In Finland, with the implementation of bigger 
antennas and their associated devices required at the proposed location, this problem 
can be partially, but not totally, corrected.  
 

  Other advantages 
 

 The majority of strategic telecommunications of the Department of 
Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Field Support are transmitted via 
three geostationary satellites. The location sought for a secondary active 
telecommunications site must have visibility (“a clear view”) to all satellites 
currently leased by both Departments. The geographical area where these conditions 
are met is based on coverage data and elevation angle recommendations provided by 
INTELSAT. The Valencia site is located within this area. Valencia does not share 
common power and communications grids with UNLB, greatly reducing the risk of 
a simultaneous outage in both sites. 


