
United Nations A/RES/63/262

General Assembly Distr.: General5 March 2009

Sixty-third session
Agenda item 118

08-48651

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly

[on the report of the Fifth Committee (A/63/648/Add.3)]

63/262. Information and communications technology, 
enterprise resource planning, and security, 
disaster recovery and business continuity 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolutions 57/304 of 15 April 2003, 59/275 of 23 December 
2004, 60/283, section II, of 7 July 2006 and 62/250 of 20 June 2008, 

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General entitled “Investing in 
information and communications technology: information and communications 
strategy for the United Nations Secretariat”1 and the addendum thereto,2 the report 
of the Secretary-General entitled “Information and communications technology: 
enterprise systems for the United Nations Secretariat worldwide”,3 the report of the 
Secretary-General on information and communications technology security, disaster 
recovery and business continuity for the United Nations4 and the related report of 
the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, 5 the first 
progress report of the Secretary-General on the adoption of International Public 
Sector Accounting Standards by the United Nations6 and the related report of the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,7 the report of the 
Secretary-General entitled “Investing in information and communications 
technology: status report”8 and the related report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions, 9 the note by the Secretary-General on 
information and communication technology security, business continuity and 
disaster recovery 10 and the related report of the Advisory Committee on 

_______________
1 A/62/793 and Corr.1.
2 A/62/793/Add.1.
3 A/62/510/Rev.1.
4 A/62/477.
5 A/63/487 and Corr.1 and 2.
6 A/62/806.
7 A/63/496.
8 A/62/502.
9 A/62/7/Add.31. For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-second Session, 
Supplement No. 7A.
10 A/61/290.



A/RES/63/262

2

Administrative and Budgetary Questions, 11 the report of the Secretary-General 
entitled “Investing in the United Nations for a stronger Organization worldwide: 
interim report: investing in information and communications technology” 12 and the 
related report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions,13 the notes by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Joint 
Inspection Unit on policies of the United Nations system organizations towards the 
use of open source software in the secretariats14 and the comments of the Secretary-
General and those of the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for 
Coordination thereon,15 the notes by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of 
the Joint Inspection Unit on knowledge management in the United Nations system 16

and the comments of the Secretary-General and those of the United Nations System 
Chief Executives Board for Coordination thereon,17 and the report of the Secretary-
General on the feasibility of the application of cost-accounting principles in the 
United Nations Secretariat18 and the related report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions,19

Underlining the importance of information and communications technology in 
meeting the growing demands of the Organization as it becomes increasingly reliant 
on its information technology and communications infrastructure,

Also underlining the importance of information and communications technology
in strengthening oversight and accountability and in increasing the availability of 
accurate and timely information to support decision-making, 

1. Reaffirms that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of 
the General Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and 
budgetary matters; 

2. Recalls the role of the Secretary-General as the Chief Administrative 
Officer of the Organization, in accordance with the provisions of Article 97 of the 
Charter of the United Nations; 

3. Recognizes the need for central authority to set common standards, 
provide an Organization-wide perspective, optimize use of resources and improve 
information and communications technology services;

4. Also recognizes the need for an integrated, global information system 
that makes possible the effective management of human, financial and physical 
resources and that is based on streamlined business processes and best practices; 

5. Further recognizes the need for a global operational framework to enable 
the United Nations to respond effectively to emergency situations that may impair 
the operations of critical elements of its information and communications 
technology infrastructure and facilities; 

_______________
11 A/61/478.
12 A/61/765.
13 A/61/804.
14 A/60/665.
15 A/60/665/Add.1.
16 A/63/140.
17 A/63/140/Add.1.
18 A/61/826.
19 A/62/537.



A/RES/63/262

3

6. Endorses the conclusions and recommendations contained in the reports 
of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,5,9 subject to 
the provisions of the present resolution; 

I

Information and communications technology strategy and governance

Recognizing the importance of the Secretary-General’s knowledge 
management proposals, particularly in facilitating more informed decision-making 
and improving the effectiveness of the Organization,

Emphasizing the importance of strong, central leadership for the establishment 
and implementation of Organization-wide information and communications 
technology standards and activities in order to ensure efficient utilization of 
resources, modernization of information systems and improvement in the 
information and communications technology services available to the United 
Nations,

1. Recognizes that the successful integration of central information and 
communications technology functions across the Secretariat is essential to achieving 
coherence and coordination in the work of the Organization and between the 
Secretariat and the funds, programmes and specialized agencies; 

2. Notes the intention of the Secretary-General to establish the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology in a budget-and-staff-neutral manner;

3. Stresses the need for a simple and operationally effective information and 
communications technology governance structure with clear lines of authority and 
accountability;

4. Decides to establish the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology as an independent organizational unit under a separate budget section, 
to be headed by the Chief Information Technology Officer at the level of Assistant 
Secretary-General;

5. Emphasizes that there is no single governance model for information and 
communications technology that can be assumed to be solely appropriate for the 
United Nations;

6. Notes the considerable level of expertise in the International Computing 
Centre, and requests the Secretary-General to continue to utilize the services of the 
Centre in supporting the information and communications technology activities of 
the United Nations; 

7. Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the centralization and 
integration of the information and communications technology functions in the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology do not have any negative 
impact on the support provided to field operations worldwide; 

8. Encourages the Secretary-General, as Chairman of the United Nations 
System Chief Executives Board for Coordination, to foster deeper coordination and 
collaboration among United Nations organizations in all matters related to 
information and communications technology;

9. Requests the Secretary-General, in accordance with its resolution 58/269 
of 23 December 2003, to submit a revised strategic framework to the Committee for 
Programme and Coordination at its forty-ninth session in the light of the 



A/RES/63/262

4

programmatic aspects of the revision arising from the creation of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology;

10. Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at 
the main part of its sixty-fifth session on his information and communications 
technology strategy, including on:

(a) Any necessary adjustments to the governance structure to make it simpler 
and operationally effective as a policy setting and management instrument; 

(b) An update on such management and reporting arrangements; 

(c) An in-depth assessment of the organizational arrangement, including the 
possibility of changing the placement of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology in the structure of the Organization;

(d) A comprehensive inventory of information and communications 
technology capacities across the Secretariat, including dedicated and part-time 
personnel; 

(e) More precisely identified and quantified efficiency gains or benefits 
expected from the implementation of the information and communications 
technology strategy; 

(f) The methodology and benchmarks used to identify and measure those 
benefits; 

(g) The roles and responsibilities of the Office of the Chief Information 
Technology Officer and the Department of Field Support of the Secretariat 
regarding information and communications technology activities, including on lines 
of authority, accountability and the division of labour set out in the new 
organizational structure; 

II

Enterprise resource planning project

1. Recalls section II, paragraph 4, of its resolution 60/283, in which it 
decided to replace the Integrated Management Information System with a next-
generation enterprise resource planning system or other comparable system;  

2. Stresses that the implementation of the enterprise resource planning 
system should aim at consolidating the management of all financial, human and 
physical resources under a single integrated information system for the entire 
Organization, including for peacekeeping and field missions;

3. Recognizes the considerable operational and financial risks involved in 
the implementation of the enterprise resource planning system, and stresses the need 
for the Secretary-General to ensure full accountability and clear lines of 
responsibility for the project; 

4. Notes the intention of the Secretary-General to implement the 
functionalities of the United Nations enterprise resource planning system in ways 
that would mitigate organizational and managerial risks;  

5. Stresses the need to implement the various functions of the enterprise 
resource planning system across the global range of United Nations offices in a 
well-planned, step-by-step manner that ensures adequate preparation and training 
for each location and that minimizes the burden of change on the Organization and 
its resources, in order to further mitigate organizational and managerial risks; 



A/RES/63/262

5

6. Notes that the enterprise resource planning system provides for an 
integrated suite of information technology applications, as outlined by the 
Secretary-General in paragraph 20 of his report,3 and requests the Secretary-General 
to report on those applications to the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session;

7. Approves the proposed governance framework of the enterprise resource 
planning project; 

8. Notes that the enterprise resource planning governance structure proposed
by the Secretary-General is distinct from the information and communications 
technology governance structure; 

9. Recognizes that the successful implementation of the enterprise resource 
planning project requires the full support and commitment of senior management, as 
well as close and continuous engagement with key stakeholders; 

10. Emphasizes that the enterprise resource planning project should be 
viewed primarily as a business project driven by business process demands and 
delivered through complex information technology systems requiring a high level of 
technical expertise; 

11. Recalls that the objective of the enterprise resource planning project is to 
enhance the effective and transparent use of the resources of the Organization and, 
in that regard, emphasizes the need to identify tangible and measurable efficiency 
and productivity gains arising from the project; 

12. Requests the Secretary-General to limit customization of the enterprise 
resource planning software to the extent feasible in order to ensure cost-
effectiveness as well as flexibility in upgrading to new versions of the software and 
to report on any necessary customization with full justification of rationale and cost;

13. Also requests the Secretary-General, where customization for a particular 
function is unavoidable, to consider enhancing existing systems or using specialized 
software that can integrate with the enterprise resource planning system where it is 
more cost-effective in the long-term; 

14. Stresses that changes to the working practices and business processes of 
the Secretariat should always be considered before undertaking customization; 

15. Expresses its readiness to consider any duly justified proposal aimed at 
reducing customization, stressing that any proposed changes to the United Nations 
regulations must have prior approval of the General Assembly; 

16. Stresses that, as a later adopter of the enterprise resource planning 
system, the United Nations can benefit from the lessons learned by other entities of 
the United Nations system that have implemented such systems; 

17. Takes note of the overall resource requirements for the implementation of 
the enterprise resource planning systems for the United Nations as contained in the 
relevant report of the Secretary-General;3

18. Approves the amount of 20 million United States dollars, comprising 
5,110,000 dollars to be funded from the regular budget for the biennium 2008–2009, 
7,050,000 dollars from the support account for peacekeeping operations for the 
period from 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2009 and 7,840,000 dollars from extrabudgetary 
resources for the biennium 2008–2009 for the implementation of the enterprise 
resource planning system; 



A/RES/63/262

6

19. Decides to approve the utilization of the amount of 2,346,000 dollars of 
interest accrued under the Integrated Management Information System Fund 
available as at 31 December 2007 to offset the regular budget requirements for the 
enterprise resource planning project approved in paragraph 18 of the present 
section;

20. Requests the Secretary-General to meet the regular budget share of 
requirements for the enterprise resource planning system in the amount of 2,764,000 
dollars from the overall resources appropriated for the biennium 2008–2009 for the 
regular budget and to report the related expenditure as necessary in the second 
performance report for the biennium 2008–2009;

21. Authorizes the Secretary-General to enter into commitments in a total 
amount not to exceed 7,050,000 dollars for the support account for peacekeeping 
operations for the period from 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2009 in respect of the support 
account share for the enterprise resource planning project;

22. Takes note that an estimated amount of 7,840,000 dollars will be financed 
from extrabudgetary resources for the biennium 2008–2009;

23. Endorses the cost-sharing arrangement for the financing of the enterprise 
resource planning project proposed by the Secretary-General in paragraph 79 of his 
report;3

24. Decides not to suspend the provisions for the application of credits under 
regulations 3.2 (d), 5.3 and 5.4 of the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United 
Nations, 20 regarding the use of available balances in the surplus account of the 
General Fund and the unencumbered balance of active peacekeeping operations; 

25. Authorizes the Secretary-General to establish a multi-year special account 
to record income and expenditures for this project; 

26. Requests the Secretary-General to keep the enterprise resource planning 
governance structure under review and to report to the General Assembly at the 
main part of its sixty-fourth session on the enterprise resource planning project, 
including:

(a) An assessment of the organizational arrangements; 

(b) A revised enterprise resource planning project implementation and 
updated budget, taking stock of the design phase, with a full and detailed 
justification of the resources needed; 

(c) An updated business case, including details on tangible and measurable 
efficiency and productivity gains in the areas of operation and administration to be 
achieved through the implementation of the enterprise resource planning system, as 
well as benchmarks for measuring progress and the anticipated return on 
investment; 

(d) Highlighting those modules that are essential for the implementation of 
the International Public Sector Accounting Standards;

(e) An update on the implementation of the customer relationship management
and enterprise content management systems, including further resources required, as 
well as the cost-sharing arrangement for their continued implementation;

_______________
20 ST/SGB/2003/7.



A/RES/63/262

7

(f) Justification of the need, and options for, contingency resources, 
including a possible budgetary alternative;

(g) Options for a reduced enterprise resource planning package at lower cost;

III

Customer relationship management and enterprise content 
management systems

1. Recognizes the benefits of the implementation of the customer relationship
management and enterprise content management systems, and requests the Secretary-
General to continue to implement those applications throughout the Organization, as 
appropriate; 

2. Stresses that the customer relationship management and enterprise content 
management systems shall be developed and implemented under the authority of the 
Chief Information Technology Officer in order to ensure a coordinated approach to 
the development of enterprise systems; 

3. Emphasizes the need to ensure complementarity between the customer 
relationship management and enterprise content management systems with the 
forthcoming enterprise resource planning system; 

4. Decides to approve additional resource requirements for the enterprise 
content management project in the amount of 2 million dollars, and requests the 
Secretary-General to meet the requirements from within the overall resources 
appropriated under the programme budget for the biennium 2008–2009 and to report
on the related expenditure, as necessary, in the second performance report on the 
programme budget for the biennium;

5. Notes that implementation of the customer relationship management and 
enterprise content management systems is already in progress, and that at the time 
of the inception of those projects, the Secretary-General had not made a full 
proposal to the General Assembly; 

IV

Security, disaster recovery and business continuity

1. Emphasizes the need for appropriate information and communications
technology security, disaster recovery and business continuity plans; 

2. Requests the Secretary-General to consolidate systems in central data 
centres in order to strengthen disaster recovery and business continuity and to 
minimize the size of local primary and secondary data centres; 

3. Also requests the Secretary-General to prioritize systems in order to 
minimize the cost of disaster recovery and business continuity; 

4. Recalls section XV of its resolution 60/266 of 30 June 2006, and stresses 
the need to ensure timely and secure communications and information exchange 
within and between duty stations, as well as to ensure that a robust and fault-tolerant 
infrastructure is in place to continue or restart operations in the event of a natural or 
a man-made disaster or disruption; 

5. Notes that the Secretariat lacks an Organization-wide approach to disaster 
recovery and business continuity, thereby exposing the Organization to considerable 
risks, and, in this regard, welcomes the development of a unified approach to 
disaster recovery and business continuity activities throughout the Secretariat;



A/RES/63/262

8

6. Encourages the Secretary-General to take a unified approach to disaster 
recovery and business continuity, utilizing all available infrastructure, in order to 
achieve economies of scale and cost efficiencies; 

7. Deeply regrets that the Secretary-General entered into a long-term lease 
for the proposed Long Island City data centre before the viability of the site as a 
secondary data centre for United Nations Headquarters had been fully established, 
and urges the Secretary-General to explore alternative uses for the leased space as a 
matter of urgency; 

8. Notes with concern that the delay this caused may lead to further cost 
escalation, including to the capital master plan, and risk to data; 

9. Notes the particular challenge of providing disaster recovery and business 
continuity to customized departmental information and communications technology 
systems, and encourages the Secretary-General to pursue an enterprise information 
and communications technology approach wherever possible;

10. Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the United Nations uses 
enterprise data centres rather than local data centres as far as possible;

11. Decides not to approve the proposal of the Secretary-General for a new 
secondary data centre at this stage, and requests him to report to the General 
Assembly at the first part of its resumed sixty-third session on the risk mitigation 
measures to be taken during the relocation of the primary data centre to the North 
Lawn; 

12. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a unified disaster recovery and 
business continuity plan, including a permanent solution for Headquarters; 

13. Also requests the Secretary-General to fully explore the possibilities for 
consolidating and using the most reliable and cost-effective solution for data 
storage, business continuity services and hosting of enterprise systems, drawing on 
the experience of other United Nations entities and global developments in 
information and communications technology, and to report thereon to the General 
Assembly at the main part of its sixty-fourth session; 

14. Encourages application and data re-engineering where it supports the 
long-term goal of managing data recovery and business continuity in system-wide 
enterprise data centres and where, from a long-term perspective, it is more cost-
effective than hosting them at a local data centre;

15. Notes with appreciation the commitment of the Government of Spain,
and approves the related proposal to host a secondary active telecommunications 
facility at Valencia, Spain, to support peacekeeping activities; 

16. Decides not to proceed at this stage with plans to host computing and 
data storage equipment relating to Secretariat business continuity operations and 
enterprise solutions at the secondary active communications facility at Valencia; 

17. Requests the Secretary-General to include, in the report requested in 
paragraph 13 of the present section, plans to reduce the number of local data centres 
at Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters and peacekeeping missions;



A/RES/63/262

9

18. Endorses the cost-sharing arrangement proposed by the Secretary-
General for the new primary data centre of the United Nations Headquarters;21

19. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a proposal on cost-sharing 
arrangements in the context of the report requested in paragraph 11 of the present 
section on the new secondary data centre;

20. Takes note of the intention to meet the estimated requirements in the 
amount of 149,400 dollars for the establishment of the secondary active 
telecommunications facility at Valencia for the period from 1 July 2008 to 30 June 
2009 from within resources approved for the same period for the United Nations 
Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy;

21. Approves the amount of 7,145,500 dollars for the establishment of a new 
primary data centre on the North Lawn at Headquarters, of which 5,716,400 dollars 
is to be funded from resources appropriated under the programme budget for the 
biennium 2008–2009, and authorizes the Secretary-General to report the related 
expenditure, as necessary, in the context of the second performance report on the 
programme budget for the biennium;

22. Authorizes the Secretary-General to enter into commitments in a total 
amount not to exceed 1,429,100 dollars for the support account for peacekeeping 
operations for the period from 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2009 in respect of support 
account share for the establishment of a new primary data centre on the North
Lawn; 

23. Takes note of paragraphs 89 and 96 of the report of the Advisor y 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,5 and decides to approve the 
amount of 2.5 million dollars, to be funded from the regular budget for the current 
biennium, for the provision of disaster recovery and business continuity services to 
Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters and field missions, and requests the 
Secretary-General to meet the above requirements from within the overall resources 
appropriated for the biennium for the regular budget and to report the related 
expenditures, as necessary, in the second performance report for the biennium;

V

International Public Sector Accounting Standards 

1. Takes note of the first progress report of the Secretary-General on the 
adoption of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards;6

2. Endorses the conclusions and recommendations contained in the report 
of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions;7

3. Recalls that the General Assembly, in its resolution 60/283, approved the 
adoption of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards by the United 
Nations; 

4. Underlines that the adoption of the International Public Sector Accounting
Standards will improve governance, accountability and transparency in the United 
Nations system;

_______________
21 A/62/477, para. 113.



A/RES/63/262

10

5. Recognizes that the enterprise resource planning system will serve as the 
backbone for implementation by the United Nations of the International Public 
Sector Accounting Standards; 

6. Encourages the Secretary-General, as Chairman of the United Nations 
System Chief Executives Board for Coordination, to work within the Board to 
monitor the application of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards to 
ensure consistency within the United Nations system as a whole; 

VI

Cost accounting

1. Endorses the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions,19 subject to the provisions of the present resolution; 

2. Takes note of paragraphs 12, 17 and 18 of the report of the Advisor y 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions;19

3. Notes that cost accounting is more suitably applied to the support 
services of the Organization and may not be suitable for use in the substantive work 
of the Organization; 

4. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to improve the methods for 
calculating costs of support services, including through a framework for cost 
accounting in order to standardize current costing practices, and to report thereon to 
the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session; 

5. Also requests the Secretary-General to include, in the report requested in 
paragraph 4 of the present section, an analysis of other areas within the support 
services of the Organization in which cost accounting could be applied.

74th plenary meeting
24 December 2008


