
United Nations A/60/846/Add.1

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
12 May 2006

Original: English

06-34697 (E)   180506

*0634697*

Sixtieth session
Agenda items 46, 118, 120, 122, 124, 128, 129 and 136

Integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up
to the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and
summits in the economic, social and related fields

United Nations reform: measures and proposals

Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit

Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial
functioning of the United Nations

Programme budget for the biennium 2006-2007

Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the expenses
of the United Nations

Human resources management

Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of
the United Nations peacekeeping operations

Investing in the United Nations: for a stronger Organization
worldwide: detailed report

Report of the Secretary-General

Addendum

Investing in information and communication technology



2
A/60/846/Add.1

Contents
Paragraphs Page

 I. Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1–3 3

 II. Chief Information Technology Officer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4–15 3

A. Proposed information and communication technology arrangements for the
United Nations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8–10 4

B. Responsibilities of the Chief Information Technology Officer . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 5

C. Profile of the Chief Information Technology Officer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12–13 5

D. Conclusions and recommendations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14–15 6

 III. Upgrading of the Secretariat-wide information and communication technology
systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16–80 6

A. Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19–27 7

1. Integrated Management Information System life cycle. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20–23 7

2. Information and communication technology strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24–25 8

3. Vision for the future. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26–27 8

B. History of investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28–32 8

C. Lessons learned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33–36 10

D. Experience of the United Nations system with recent innovations . . . . . . . . . 37–38 11

E. Rationale for change . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39–52 13

1. Changing requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42–45 13

2. Support to field operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46–48 14

3. Risk mitigation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49–52 15

F. Consolidated information for full transparency in decision-making . . . . . . . . 53–59 16

1. Resource management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54–55 16

2. Information management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56–59 16

G. The path forward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60–80 17

1. Enterprise content management: pilot implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61–62 17

2. Integrated Management Information System gap study . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63–65 18

3. Comprehensive cost study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66–69 18

4. Implementation strategy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70–73 21

5. Timetable for implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74–76 22

6. Transition planning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77 23

7. Readiness measures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78 23

8. Conclusions and recommendations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79 23

 IV. Action required of the General Assembly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80 23



3
A/60/846/Add.1

I. Introduction

1. In proposals 8, 9 and 10 of his report entitled “Investing in the United Nations:
for a stronger Organization worldwide” (A/60/692 and Corr.1), the Secretary-
General put forward the following proposals in the area of investing in information
and communication technology (ICT):

“8. The post of Chief Information Technology Officer should be created, at
the Assistant Secretary-General level, to oversee the creation and
implementation of an effective information management strategy;

“9-10 An urgent upgrading of Secretariat-wide ICT systems should be
undertaken”.

Both proposals are seen as essential building blocks for the creation of a Secretariat
that is fully equipped to meet the goals of transparency and full accountability to the
General Assembly.

2. The present addendum is submitted in accordance with paragraph 1 of section
IV of General Assembly resolution 60/260 of 8 May 2006, in which the Assembly
requested the Secretary-General for a detailed report consisting of a number of
elements, as elaborated in subparagraphs 1 (a) through (g) of the same section,
bearing in mind the unique intergovernmental nature and international character of
the United Nations and the provisions of previous resolutions.

3. The addendum addresses the request of the General Assembly by elaborating
on proposals 8, 9 and 10 of the report of the Secretary-General (A/60/692 and
Corr.1). In addition, in preparing the present report, due consideration has been
taken of the guidance of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary
Questions, as contained in section III.C of its report on the report of the Secretary-
General (A/60/735 and Corr.1), bearing in mind that the Assembly has taken note of
that report.

II. Chief Information Technology Officer

4. In proposal 8 of his report (A/60/692 and Corr.1), the Secretary-General asked
that the General Assembly revive its discussion of creating the post of Chief
Information Technology Officer and approve its establishment as soon as possible,
at the Assistant Secretary-General level, to oversee the creation and implementation
of an effective information management strategy for the entire Secretariat.

5. Large organizations with complex and diversely located operations need a
proper management structure to lead and maintain their ICT and to ensure the
alignment of their ICT investments and resources with their mandates and
programmes.

6. Governance models for ICT vary widely in the private and public sector, often
reflecting the overall management models and cultures of the organizations where
they are applied. The size and complexity of organizations also has a bearing on the
degree of centralization or delegation of authority over which management
structures operate. However, most modern, information intensive organizations have
recognized the strategic value of ICT by establishing the function of a chief
information technology officer at a cabinet or board level. Since technology and



4
A/60/846/Add.1

information flows are nowadays an integral part of most management processes, the
participation of the head of information technology in strategic decision-making
processes is vital.

7. Both the General Assembly and the Advisory Committee have recognized the
need to establish a senior position to lead ICT activities globally in the Secretariat,
and the Advisory Committee has stated this view in a number of its reports, most
recently in its first report on the proposed programme budget for the biennium
2006-2007 (see A/60/7, paras. 112, VIII.42 and VIII.47) in which it stated:

“VIII.47 The Advisory Committee strongly believes that the Organization
would benefit greatly by having in place a more centralized approach to
managing information and communication technology initiatives and
operations. The Committee requests that the Secretary-General review all
available options for improving information and communication technology
governance, including the possibility of a single structure to lead and manage
information and communication technology activities and operations for the
Secretariat. The Committee also reiterates its view that, given the magnitude of
resources the Organization spends on information and communication
technology, it would appear justified to create a new senior position of Chief
Information Officer of the United Nations, who would be responsible for
developing information and communication technology strategy, its most
effective structure and its operational policies and procedures. The incumbent
should possess a high degree of technical experience and expertise along with
proven managerial and leadership ability (A/58/7, see para. 126).”

A. Proposed information and communication technology
arrangements for the United Nations

8. Given the multidisciplinary nature of the United Nations, its geographical
dispersion and its complex management structure, the proposed ICT arrangements
follow the lines of those in place at many large international organizations with
significant and complex ICT operations, such as the World Bank, the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
and the World Food Programme (WFP).

9. The Chief Information Technology Officer would be entrusted with the
responsibility for developing the overall ICT strategy for the United Nations and
leading its implementation. The position would carry sufficient central authority to
effectively manage directly, or through appropriate delegation, all ICT activities in
the Secretariat. This authority would cover activities at Headquarters, offices away
from Headquarters as well as in the field, including all peacekeeping and special
political missions.

10. Although the Chief Information Technology Officer would provide vision,
leadership and expertise, and would be ultimately responsible for the management
of ICT, decision-making on ICT matters would not be concentrated solely in his/her
hands. Decisions will be the result of a process carried out by the following two
committees:



5
A/60/846/Add.1

(a) Management Committee: comprising heads of Departments and offices
away from Headquarters, the Management Committee would consider and decide on
any significant information technology investment initiative. The Chief Information
Technology Officer, as a member of the Committee, would develop and present ICT
investment proposals to the Management Committee;

(b) Technology Steering Committee: this committee, chaired by the Chief
Information Technology Officer, would comprise technology and information
management specialists appointed by the Chairperson, and would operate as the
technology “think-tank” of the Organization. It would be in this forum, under the
leadership of the Chief Information Technology Officer, where all major decisions
on technology direction would be made. The Committee would include business
systems (enterprise resource planning (ERP)) managers, knowledge systems
managers, operations managers and information security and telecommunications
managers from Headquarters and the field. Outside expertise would periodically be
sought from other agencies of the United Nations system and from research
consultants and specialists, who would participate in this Committee as ex officio
members, giving the Committee the opportunity to gain access to current experience
from within the United Nations system as well as market trends and information in
the area of current technology.

B. Responsibilities of the Chief Information Technology Officer

11. The Chief Information Technology Officer would be accountable to the Under-
Secretary-General for Management and would have the following responsibilities:

(a) To develop, maintain and monitor the implementation of information
technology plans for the United Nations worldwide, as approved by the
Management Committee;

(b) To lead the development of an information management strategy for the
Secretariat, including offices away from headquarters and all field-based missions;

(c) To promulgate policies and standards on information technology matters;

(d) To lead the Technology Steering Committee;

(e) To coordinate and oversee, through appropriate delegation, ICT
operations at all offices of the Secretariat;

(f) To provide advice to the Management Committee on technology matters,
in his/her capacity as a member of the Committee.

C. Profile of the Chief Information Technology Officer

12. In line with earlier recommendations of the Advisory Committee that the
incumbent should possess a high degree of technical experience and expertise along
with proven managerial and leadership ability, the profile of the Chief Information
Technology Officer would include proven experience and clear understanding of the
following:

(a) Managing day-to-day ICT operations in large international organizations;



6
A/60/846/Add.1

(b) Developing and implementing ICT strategies in large international
organizations;

(c) Successful implementations of large and complex enterprise systems;

(d) Information management and technology needs of large and
multidisciplinary international organizations.

13. After the establishment of the position of Chief Information Technology
Officer, he/she would establish the appropriate strategies and the structure of the
Office of Information and Communication Technology within the Department of
Management. The proposed composition and structure of the new office would
consequently only be developed following the appointment of the CITO, so as to
benefit from his/her leadership, experience and strategy. It is anticipated that a
report on this matter would be provided to the General Assembly at the first part of
its resumed sixty-first session.

D. Conclusions and recommendations

14. Given the magnitude of resources the Organization spends on ICT, the creation
of a new senior position of Chief Information Technology Officer of the United
Nations, is both urgent and essential (A/60/7, para. 112).

15. Accordingly, the General Assembly is requested to approve the establishment
of the post of Chief Information Technology Officer, at the level of Assistant
Secretary-General, and the related costs amounting to a total of $335,500 under
sections 28A, Office of the Under-Secretary-General for Management ($145,600),
28D, Office of Central Support Services ($166,000), for office accommodation and
related services, and section 35, Staff assessment ($23,900), to be offset by an equal
amount under income section 1, Income from staff assessment, of the programme
budget for the biennium 2006-2007.

III. Upgrading of the Secretariat-wide information and
communication technology systems

16. In proposals 9 and 10 of his report, the Secretary-General proposed that there
be an urgent upgrading of Secretariat-wide ICT systems (A/60/692 and Corr.1).

17. In paragraph 1 of section IV of its resolution 60/260, the General Assembly
requested that the Secretary-General submit a detailed report responding, inter alia,
to (a) information on previous reform proposals, their impact on the existing
proposals and references to previous relevant resolutions and decisions of the
Assembly; (b) costs and administrative implications; (c) assessment of previous
investments in ICT, lessons learned and expected time frames for the introduction of
the system and arrangements for continuation of the present system during the
transitional period.

18. To specifically address the request of the General Assembly for a detailed
report, the Secretariat has initiated an in-depth fact-finding study. The Secretariat
will complete the study and provide detailed costing and a timetable for
consideration by the Assembly at its sixty-first session. The preliminary findings
and a high-level road map charting a future course for investing in ICT are provided



7
A/60/846/Add.1

herein. The report is structured to provide a clear indication of the Secretariat’s
anticipated path forward in realizing the Secretary-General’s vision for maximizing
the value of ICT to the Secretariat worldwide.

A. Background

19. The present report, which represents a bridge from a past of both progress and
problems towards a future promising new potential and advanced capability,
provides the next logical step in extending a growing literacy and application of ICT
to a more sophisticated, analytical and capable United Nations. At this critical
juncture, some introspection is required: where are we, what are our problems, and,
finally, where are we going? This self-assessment serves as the basis of the proposed
path forward, which is the subject of the present report.

1. Integrated Management Information System life cycle

20. The Secretariat has relied on internally developed IT systems centred on the
Integrated Management Information System (IMIS) for more than 15 years. The
decision to shift to IMIS began in the mid-1980s when it became clear that existing
and largely manual administrative and management systems were no longer able to
serve the needs of the Organization. Existing systems were identified as fragmented,
old-fashioned, unresponsive and incomplete with regard to data processing, and it
was therefore concluded that the Organization required a new system to increase
efficiency and productivity.

21. In response, in section XII of its resolution 43/217 of 21 December 1988, the
General Assembly approved the original IMIS project. The project was approved for
the purpose of developing an integrated system to process and report on
administrative actions at all duty stations. At the time of its development, there was
a lack of commercially available enterprise resource planning solutions that could
meet all the needs of the United Nations in the required functional areas. The
decision to develop a custom-built system for the Organization was thus the only
viable solution. Until recently, the resulting system has largely met the needs of the
Organization and has delivered a clear return on investment over the past 15 years.
That investment can be considered to be fully amortized at this point in time.

22. Since its implementation, the use of IMIS has increased information
technology literacy across user departments, assisted with the clean-up of
accounting records, standardized and increased the level of internal controls and
improved business process reforms and standardization. This progress must be
continued, with ongoing assessments and evaluations of the system’s technical and
functional capability to meet the ever-evolving needs of the Organization and the
changing technological landscape. In contrast to the lack of market availability and
technical maturity of commercial-off-the-shelf enterprise resource planning
solutions of 15 years ago, the opportunity to extend the benefits of IMIS through the
use of a next generation solution is present and timely.

23. The present report highlights some key internal and external factors that have
shaped the evolution of the Organization and its business needs, an evolution that
ultimately led to the current case for an urgent upgrading of Secretariat-wide ICT
systems — systems that offer increased technical and functional capability.



8
A/60/846/Add.1

2. Information and communication technology strategy

24. In 2002, as part of the Secretary-General’s programme of reform (see
“Strengthening of the United Nations: an agenda for further change” A/57/387 and
Corr.1), the current information and communication technology strategy was
introduced (see A/57/620). The strategy established a governance framework, the
foundation for ICT service delivery, and served as a catalyst for policymaking and
standardization of technology investments. Despite these advances, the strategy was,
of necessity, sensitive to the economic conditions of the time, yielding to a backlash
from the decline of the “technology bubble” of 1999-2000, as well as the massive
investments earmarked to prepare for the year 2000 problem (“Y2K”). In 2001, all
organizations, large and small, private and public, were looking at capital
expenditures in IT as something to avoid or postpone, whenever possible.

25. The fiscal conservatism of that time was appropriate, particularly in
consideration of the dynamic landscape in the area of enterprise resource planning
amid “hypergrowth” and rapid change. The 2002 ICT strategy stated that IMIS was
going to remain at the core of United Nations administrative systems for the next
five years, for which some technological enhancements were needed. In 2002, there
were no off-the-shelf enterprise resource planning systems available that could be
implemented at the United Nations without substantial and costly customization. In
retrospect, this hedging for industry maturity proved prudent. Over the past five
years, enterprise resource planning market conditions and the organizational
landscape have changed significantly. The availability of commercial solutions and
the case for major investments in systems that could be the foundation of a drastic
transformation in the way the Organization conducts business have provided a new
equation to the business case.

3. Vision for the future

26. The proposals for investing in ICT technology (see A/60/692 and Corr.1,
proposals 8-10) underscore a vision for a promising future of increased efficiency
and effectiveness. Proposal 9 shows a commitment to aligning ICT priorities with
Secretariat performance objectives by: incorporating better managerial decision-
support tools; implementing an Organization-wide document/content management
system; and recruiting or training people with skills in information management and
analysis — a solution for Secretariat-wide information management practices and
tools.

27. Proposal 10 presents a turn-of-the-century reform and innovation milestone,
promising better financial control, human resources management, supply chain
management and more detailed, accurate and timely management reporting. A fully
integrated global resource planning system would provide the Organization with a
new-found capability to increase its performance worldwide. The motivations,
rationale, expected benefits and proposed course of action for these directions are
outlined herein.

B. History of investments

28. Regular budget expenditure dedicated to ICT now amounts to more than
$100 million per annum. Historically, the IMIS project constituted an overall
investment of $123.7 million.



9
A/60/846/Add.1

29. Investments have also been directed to ancillary applications such as the
Integrated Monitoring and Documentation Information System (IMDIS), field-
specific systems of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations such as Sun
systems, Mercury and Galaxy (Galaxy was subsequently introduced at Headquarters
also). Costs have been incurred with the acquisition and maintenance of these
applications, which are necessary to supplement IMIS functionality for specific
operational requirements. In recent years enterprise content management
applications have increasingly gained favour and are present throughout the United
Nations in a number of incarnations. These systems, when considered as a whole,
constitute the ad hoc enterprise resource planning and enterprise content
management capability of the Secretariat. Total costs (in thousands of United States
dollars) directly identifiable to the most significant projects are shown in table 1
below:

Table 1

Total (as at December 2005)

Enterprise resource planning and related systems

IMIS 123 700

Mercury 1 600

Sun/Progen 1 400

Galileo 4 100

Galaxy 6 200

IMDIS 1 280

Enterprise content management and related systems

Official document system 12 000

CorLog 136

Mail action records system 600

e-Drits, eMeets, eDocs 3 946

Total 154 962

30. The Organization has progressively provided requisite infrastructure for all
duty stations. The payback from these investments will be fully realized with the
implementation of a timely global enterprise resource planning and enterprise
content management system. The concept of anytime/anywhere is now a reality as
all United Nations staff are virtually guaranteed access to e-mail, Intranet/Internet,
information sources such as the official document system (ODS),
telecommunications and videoconferencing.

31. Although table 1 reflects investments in systems subject to replacement, this
should not suggest monies lost. In each case, the given application has served its
specific purpose, which was largely to support functions not covered by IMIS.
Furthermore, extensive business process analysis, definition and reform was carried
out during the provision of these systems. The implementation and support of these
systems has also provided the Organization with valuable skills in maintaining
centralized systems, industry-standard problem resolution and change-management
mechanisms and has ensured an investment in ICT infrastructure that will facilitate



10

A/60/846/Add.1

the implementation and support of the proposed enterprise resource planning
system. These systems will also continue to satisfy the operational and reporting
needs of users until the enterprise resource planning system is available. The past
five years of investments have served to fill critical voids, gain an understanding of
our requirements and approach the subject of implementation of an enterprise
resource planning system as a better informed, “smarter” buyer.

32. Previous investments in enterprise content management systems have also
served to identify requirements and satisfy immediate needs. The increasing demand
and use of such systems has brought about a culture change, including the
acceptance of automation, paperless workflows, increased ability to perform
searches and a tendency to store and access documents electronically. This
appreciation and acceptance of enterprise content management technologies
demonstrates organizational and end-user readiness for a standard enterprise system.
The previous investments have “grown” the Secretariat to make full use of this
advanced approach to information management.

C. Lessons learned

33. The implementation of IMIS and the introduction of the ICT strategy have led
to noteworthy progress and, in spite of problems, to a number of improvements to
the United Nations ICT infrastructure in recent years. The full potential of ICT
remains challenged by fragmentation, outdated technology and lack of
modernization. Insomuch as IMIS has served to introduce many advances to the
Organization, the ageing of the system has led to a proliferation of interim solutions
to meet demands for which IMIS was not designed. These shortcomings, and the
subsequent short-term solutions, have exposed a systemic problem in need of repair.

34. Since the indication in the 2002 ICT strategy that an IMIS upgrade or
replacement would occur no sooner than 2007, a number of specific-purpose
applications were implemented to meet critical operational needs in anticipation of
the implementation of an enterprise resource planning system for the Organization.
Applications such as Mercury, Galileo and Galaxy were introduced as “fixes” to
meet urgent and distinct demands for field operations and IMDIS was introduced to
support the programmatic aspects of budget formulation and execution. These
applications have served their individual purposes and the Organization has
benefited from the experience gained in developing and supporting applications
utilizing mature web-enabled, centralized technologies. However, these systems
have been introduced to meet certain specific needs and do not offer the scope and
integration benefits of a Secretariat-wide enterprise resource planning solution. The
end result is that the United Nations does not presently have the adequate enterprise
resource planning capability to meet the needs of the entire Secretariat family.

35. The need of the United Nations for document management and other enterprise
content management functionality is rapidly increasing, as is evident from the recent
proliferation of such installations. Currently, there are at least four major enterprise
content management vendors and over 40 applications of different types to manage
content, using an estimated 10 different platforms. Many of these applications,
which have been developed in-house, are not integrated and “do not talk to each
other”, while some are reaching the end of their technological life cycle. CorLog,
for example, a basic correspondence tracking system built in-house in Lotus Notes,



11

A/60/846/Add.1

has nearly 40 implementations throughout the United Nations. In addition, with the
growing popularity of Lotus Notes “QuickPlace” as a collaboration tool,
Headquarters already has over 65 QuickPlace shared workspaces, which can be
accessed globally by nearly 9,000 registered users, with content development and
management evolving without any standards. If this trend continues, there will be
major adverse effects felt throughout the entire Secretariat. The following specific
problems will arise:

(a) Higher total costs associated with a greater number of smaller
departmental vendor deals. The larger the number of enterprise content management
users with a single vendor offering a full suite of modules, the lower the cost per
licence;

(b) Customizing diverse applications is costlier than customizing a single
vendor application. Implementing multiple solutions also increases both effort and
risk;

(c) Multiple content management systems are difficult and costly to integrate
and reduce the benefits of collaboration that is inherent in an enterprise content
management solution;

(d) High costs of multiple security, access and administration for each
system;

(e) Secretariat staff need to be trained on multiple systems, resulting in
higher training costs and poorer mobility;

(f) Without a single enterprise content management application across the
Secretariat, it will be difficult to implement and enforce policies and standards,
including electronic signatures, record management policy and taxonomy;

(g) Business continuity, which relies on the substantive work of the
Organization through enterprise content management-type applications, will become
more difficult or costlier to ensure.

36. These systemic problems underpin the Secretary-General’s proposal calling for
an urgent upgrading and standardization of Secretariat-wide ICT systems. A
modernization initiative to implement a fully integrated solution to store, search and
retrieve transactional and substantive information would present numerous
advantages in building the needed capability to achieve the visions set forth in the
reform agenda.

D. Experience of the United Nations system with recent innovations

37. The widespread adoption of enterprise resource planning systems by United
Nations agencies, funds, and programmes reflects the growing abilities of these
systems and the opportunity for leveraging their experience. Many agencies of the
United Nations family have increasingly turned to enterprise resource planning
solutions and have shown success in implementing these systems effectively over
time. A trend has emerged in exploring ways for agencies to collaborate and
converge on shared standards and systems. This has been illustrated by the close
collaboration in technology investments. One example is the adoption by UNDP, the
United Nations Office for Project Services, the United Nations Population Fund
(UNFPA) and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees



12

A/60/846/Add.1

(UNHCR) of a common solution. As illustrated in the table below, the Secretariat
has been presented with a unique opportunity to join the consortium of those who
have (or will) implement similar projects.

Table 2
International organizations that have adopted enterprise resource planning
systems: 1995-2005a

1995-1999 2000-2004 2005-

EBU Finance,
procurement

EU Finance, procurement, human
resources, payroll

ILO Finance, procurement,
human resources,
payroll

FAO Finance,
procurement

FAO Human resources, payroll UNICEF Human resources,
payroll

IMF Finance,
procurement

ICRC Finance, human resources WHO Finance, procurement,
human resources,
payroll

ITU Finance,
procurement

IFAD Finance, human resources,
payroll, travel

WIPO Procurement, human
resources, payroll

OECD Finance,
human resources

ITU Human resources, payroll

UNICEF Finance,
procurement

NATO Finance, procurement, human
resources, payroll

World
Bank

Finance, human
resources, payroll

OSCE Finance

UNDP Finance, human resources,
procurement

UNESCO Finance, procurement, human
resources, payroll

UNFPA Finance, procurement, human
resources payroll

UNHCR Finance, procurement

UNOPS Finance procurement, human
resources, payroll

WFP Finance, procurement, human
resources, payroll

WIPO Finance

WMO Finance

WTO Finance, procurement, human
resources payroll

(Footnote on following page)



13

A/60/846/Add.1

(Footnote to Table 2)
______________

a EBU: European Broadcasting Union; EU: European Union; FAO: Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations; ICRC: International Committee of the Red Cross; IFAD:
International Fund for Agricultural Development; ILO: International Labour Organization;
IMF: International Monetary Fund; ITU: International Telecommunication Union; NATO:
North Atlantic Treaty Organization; OECD: Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development; OSCE: Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe; UNDP: United
Nations Development Programme; UNESCO: United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization; UNFPA: United Nations Population Fund; UNHCR: Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees; UNICEF: United Nations Children’s
Fund; UNOPS: United Nations Office for Project Services; WFP: World Food Programme;
WHO: World Health Organization; WIPO: World Intellectual Property Organization; WMO:
World Meteorological Organization; WTO: World Trade Organization.

38. As can be seen from table 2, the United Nations now has a singular chance to
adopt an enterprise resource planning system similar to those already implemented
in other United Nations entities. The field of experience among agencies of the
United Nations system presents a tactical advantage for the Secretariat. By
developing partnerships within the United Nations system, the Secretariat will be
better positioned to seek out “best fit” implementations from the existing portfolio
of experience rather than a purely technical solution. Efforts are under way to
survey and identify the possible synergy and leveraging potential from the growing
community of experience and shared interest.

E. Rationale for change

39. Enterprise resource planning aims to break down the silos of information
within an organization by consolidating previously fragmented data from disparate
information systems. Enterprise resource planning platforms integrate financial,
supply and human resources data to facilitate the effective use of an organization’s
resources. Given the technological and business maturity of enterprise resource
planning use in practice, no organization can claim operational efficiency and
maximum effectiveness without a capable enterprise resource planning system. In
consideration of the current functionality of IMIS and related systems, and the
anticipated business needs of the United Nations, the rationale for change is clear.

40. A similar case is true for the introduction of an enterprise content management
system. The Secretariat will need to ensure much greater cohesion of its workflow
and knowledge management, allowing managers to integrate programme objectives,
knowledge assets and budgetary and financial data into one integrated technology-
assisted process.

41. The opportunities for improvement represented in the enterprise resource
planning/enterprise content management solutions advocate a change campaign to
respond to emerging requirements facing the Organization for the foreseeable future.

1. Changing requirements

42. The Secretariat’s current and projected business needs are outpacing the
technical capabilities and business functionality of its current patchwork of
information technology systems, which are centred on the IMIS platform. As a



14

A/60/846/Add.1

result, the Organization has been evaluating options for upgrading and/or replacing
its systems to address functionality gaps and better align systems with business needs.

43. The agenda of United Nations management reform, which remains one of the
highest priorities of the General Assembly, emphasizes the need for increased
organizational effectiveness, efficiency and coherence.

44. This ambitious reform agenda for improved accountability and transparency
creates specific functional and technical needs (for example, results-based budgeting
and management, enhanced internal controls, mechanisms to manage staff mobility
exercises, improved reporting) that could not have been anticipated by the IMIS
project and that are not reflected in the current information technology platform.
Furthermore, the Organization’s anticipated move towards adopting external
standards is another factor that could not have been anticipated by the IMIS project.
The most significant example of such a factor is the proposed adoption of
International Public Sector Accounting Standards. This decision will have
significant implications for the Organization’s business needs and, as a result, its
technical requirements. These new requirements would prove impossible to
accommodate within the context of the existing IT systems.

45. Fortunately, the availability of commercial technology to meet the needs of the
United Nations is sufficient. Moreover, the prominent providers of such solutions
have gained institutional knowledge of several organizations of the United Nations
system. If these lessons learned are leveraged, the experience will translate to a
number of advantages for deployment in the global Secretariat, to include:

(a) Full enterprise resource planning functionality (complete, integrated,
end-to-end business suite) with global updates and support;

(b) Extended enterprise resource planning functionality in areas such as field
operations, supply chain, logistics and asset/inventory management;

(c) Technology infrastructure architecture that is scalable for multi-site
usage and high number of users;

(d) Full country functionality (multilingual, multicurrency, localization at a
global scale);

(e) Localization support for human resources and finance;

(f) Deployment in a wide range of technological infrastructure conditions.

2. Support to field operations

46. IMIS offers only limited coverage to field missions. The scale of peacekeeping
operations has grown from $1.25 billion annually, when IMIS began, to over
$5 billion annually today. In 2005, approximately 80,000 military, civilian police
and civilian personnel served in 16 peacekeeping operations and in special political
missions. The growing scale of activity has underlined the need for a fully
integrated system with robust internal controls and enhanced supply chain
management functionality. Recurring high profile issues on the transparency of the
resources of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations has underlined this
challenge.

47. The Secretariat currently has a very limited level of integrated supply chain
management functionality. The systems that compose a supply chain management



15

A/60/846/Add.1

capability include, to name a few, e-Headquarters Committee on Contracts,
ProcurePlus, Mercury and Galileo. Of these, only ProcurePlus is linked directly to
IMIS through a batch process. Clearly, this ad hoc and improvised system is less
than ideal and an integrated global supply chain management solution is needed.

48. The situation is equally dire in ensuring appropriate financial control
mechanisms for field operations. IMIS does not currently offer anytime/anywhere
access to financial, human resources, procurement or asset management data. IMIS
is very good at tracking line-item transactions from the point of entry into the
system to reconciliation and close. However, most field management processes exist
outside the IMIS domain and are therefore not captured. Consequently, a situation of
multiple databases has diminished the level of transparency and control of
administrative processes. From a managerial decision-making perspective, a needed
query may produce several different answers to a question and a credible single
source view does not exist, thus limiting the ability of the manager to produce
demand forecasts, performance reports and audits. These shortcomings weaken
management oversight capability and expose the Organization to unacceptable risks,
which need mitigation.

3. Risk mitigation

49. Operating under current conditions is rapidly becoming more costly and
carries with it the risk of serious consequences, including weak financial controls,
such as those for the procurement of goods and services, and lack of accurate
reporting. There are several examples where an upgrade to a single integrated
system will reduce risk. For example, owing to the lack of full integration at
Headquarters between IMIS and disbursements processing systems, all United
States dollar, cross-border payments and non-United States dollar payments are
entered into payment systems manually. Taking into consideration the 2005
disbursement volume of $230,000, a single error in manual entry can initiate a chain
of errors.

50. In addition to treasury operations, risks are also evident in various
procurement controls. Purchases for goods and services are recorded in multiple
separate systems, preventing global reporting, trend analysis and control of the
Organization’s extensive global expenditures. Data on purchases is also not easily
transferred between systems. This is highlighted by the difficulty experienced in
maintaining and expanding global system contracts, vendor registration and vendor
performance tracking/reporting.

51. The cases of treasury and procurement-related risks signify inadequate
visibility over Secretariat-wide finance, human resources and supply chain
management processes, diminishing the ability of the Organization to identify
anomalies, inconsistencies and errors in a timely manner. In cases of potential
misappropriation, the ability to focus on those specific areas is limited. The silo
nature of the existing systems present an obstacle to achieving oversight across
activities and over time. An example of this is the inability to effectively report on
the Department of Peacekeeping Operations vis-à-vis contingent-owned equipment
and its impact on the fiscal status of field missions. This weakness in reporting,
trend analysis and decision support would be significantly ameliorated through the
use of an enterprise resource planning.



16

A/60/846/Add.1

52. These ever-present and increasing risks indicate the critical need for a course
of mitigation as offered in a consolidation towards a cohesive and standard
enterprise resource planning system, a system that offers greater decision-making
support and functional capability commensurate to the demands of increased
control, accountability and transparency.

F. Consolidated information for full transparency in decision-making

53. Consolidation of information is essential if the Secretariat is to act more
transparently and efficiently in managing staff and procuring goods and services of
greater quality and quantity, at lower levels of risk.

1. Resource management

54. A growing community of case examples indicates that a successful enterprise
resource planning project can generate a range of advantages, including more
accurate demand forecasts, increased productivity and enhanced decision-making
capability. The improved decision-making capabilities supported by enterprise
systems can help the United Nations rethink and refine its entire business strategy.
Enterprise resource planning systems provide a platform upon which the Secretariat
can expand its administrative capabilities and would allow the United Nations to
share high volumes of transactional data with the entire stakeholder community in a
timely and accurate manner. Most importantly, enterprise resource planning systems
can enable the United Nations to better manage and analyse the billions of
transactions it generates.

55. To be successful, an enterprise resource planning system must be part of a
comprehensive strategic plan and must prompt standardization of business processes
and change. Recent industry surveys highlighted that the main benefit of enterprise
resource planning systems to organizations is that they enable them to operate
effectively through enhanced integration of processes and the sharing of
information, bringing together people and departments that had previously been
disconnected by process gaps and fragmented workflows. Enterprise resource
planning implementation calls for an Organization-wide process orientation, as
reflected in the report of the Secretary-General (see A/60/692 and Corr.1).

2. Information management

56. Enterprise content management is an integrated set of solutions comprising
eight core modules: web content management; document management; document
imaging and scanning; collaboration; search; web portal; digital asset management;
and records management. Together the eight core modules enable organizations to
unify teams, content and associated business processes within a single web-based
platform. Enterprise content management enables United Nations staff to
collaboratively create, manage, deliver, and archive information that drives business
operations, from documents, records and discussions to e-mail, web pages and
media such as audio and video. An enterprise content management solution makes it
possible for the Organization to distribute information of all content types
(including text, audio and video) in multiple languages, across internal and external
applications and among user communities throughout the world.



17

A/60/846/Add.1

57. Industry standards compiled by a variety of consulting groups (such as
Forrester and IDC) classify the benefits of enterprise content management into two
categories: qualitative and quantitative. Qualitative benefits include enhanced
transparency, accountability, monitoring, control, auditing and tracking of content;
more accurate and informed analysis leading to better decision-making by
substantive and administrative groups, improved knowledge-sharing among
departments; better sharing of information and collaboration with non-governmental
organizations and Member States; increased training capabilities; improved
enactment and compliance with United Nations policies and standards; and
improved document classification, retention and dispositions policy enforcement.

58. Quantitative benefits include economies of scale achieved by procuring a
single enterprise content management platform for all United Nations departments
and offices; deeper discounts from vendors for larger deals (United Nations-wide
versus departmental); consolidation of information technology support, development
and training; reduction of the overhead of dealing with multiple vendors; and
streamlining infrastructure through server-consolidation. The benefits are realized in
a number of time saving tasks: reduced time spent searching, retrieving and filing;
reduction in time spent photocopying; reduction in off-site storage and labour
related to storage; reduction in workflow inefficiencies; reduction in on-site storage
space; reduction in shipping costs and costs for filing supplies; and reduction in the
need for office machines and photocopying.

59. The “transformational” benefits of a next generation enterprise resource
planning and enterprise content management reflect the commitment of the
Secretary-General to the reform agenda and are a reflection of the Secretariat’s
intention to implement capabilities the United Nations has never had before; a
capability where all required information that is needed is available.

G. The path forward

60. Since the indications presented in the 2002 ICT strategy, next-generation
enterprise resource planning and enterprise content management projects have been
foreseen as integral components for a path forward leading the organization into the
twenty-first century. A number of preparatory and planning measures are in progress
that serve as the basis of a comprehensive and detailed report. Efforts are continuing
to develop the costing of an enterprise resource planning solution, design an overall
enterprise resource planning implementation approach, create an action plan for the
selection of an integrator, identify a detailed enterprise resource planning team
structure and work tracts and establish a communication and staff engagement
strategy to launch the change management process.

1. Enterprise content management: pilot implementation

61. After extensive research and planning, the procurement of an enterprise
content management application is imminent. The procurement process is expected
to last from 3 to 6 months and initial business analysis and preparation for enterprise
content management readiness is currently under way for pilot projects in the
Department for General Assembly and Conference Management, the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations and the Information Technology Services Division



18

A/60/846/Add.1

(including ODS). Pilot rollouts are expected to begin in 2006. The pilot project will
serve to clarify the cost and implementation details of an enterprise deployment.

62. Initial research indicates that an enterprise content management application
could typically cost between $500 and $1,000 per user as a start-up cost (including
hardware, software, training, customization and implementation) and a recurring
maintenance cost of $60 to $110 per year per user. After the initial pilot deployment,
depending on the rate of assimilation and absorption, more economies of scale could
be gained through extension of existing modules to newer groups or additional
functionalities. Progress reports for this ongoing activity will be provided along
with the detailed costs and timetable.

2. Integrated Management Information System gap study

63. In view of the changing requirements of the Organization and the problems
experienced, an IMIS gap study was conducted to identify any weaknesses and
establish a path forward. The findings from the study and market research indicate
that the United Nations should move quickly to adopt a next-generation enterprise
resource planning system, and should do so on an accelerated basis, allowing
implementation to proceed in tandem with the proposed adoption of International
Public Sector Accounting Standards and other elements of United Nations reform.
Two approaches have been assessed in detail: an IMIS+ upgrade or a commercially
available solution.

64. The study sought to weigh the costs and benefits for the United Nations of
engaging either in a major internal overhaul and expansion of IMIS to provide these
new capabilities (IMIS+) or purchasing a standard off-the-shelf enterprise resource
planning product with limited customization and a moderate degree of
configuration. In addition to considering costs and benefits, the analysis also takes
into account potential risks attached to each option as well as the implications of
each for the Organization’s longer term flexibility.

65. Analysis shows that while the IMIS+ option might be projected to cost less
initially than an enterprise resource planning system, it would present significantly
higher risk and could critically limit the flexibility of the United Nations to respond
to future changes in the business environment. Of particular concern is the fact that
IMIS+ would commit the United Nations to maintaining its own highly customized
technology capabilities, at significant cost and with limited ability to incorporate
new innovations as they occur in the market. In the light of such concerns, IMIS+ is
not considered as a feasible option at this time. The study concluded that the United
Nations should make only a limited investment in maintaining current business
functionality and addressing emergency needs while focusing on implementing a
commercial enterprise resource planning solution as soon as possible.

3. Comprehensive cost study

66. In his report, the Secretary-General included preliminary estimates of the cost
of such a system in the order of $120 million additional investment over several
years (A/60/692 and Corr.1, para. 56). Depending on the scope, particularly as
regards peacekeeping requirements, including upgraded communications capacity, it
could be considerably more. To estimate the necessary investment to adopt an
enterprise resource planning system, multiple cost drivers must be considered.
Taking lessons learned from the original IMIS project, it is essential to estimate all



19

A/60/846/Add.1

costs accurately, including often-underestimated costs associated with training, change
management and data clean-up. A comprehensive cost study would be predicated on
the following cost drivers:

Table 3

Cost driver Cost basis

User needs definition

The user needs definition phase, early
within the process, will identify key
business processes across all affected
functional areas and will fundamentally
rethink and redesign these processes to
improve performance and achieve the
benefits of automation. These new
designs will form the basis for the user
requirements for the software selection
process.

One of the most common reasons for a
failed enterprise resource planning
implementation is failure to review
business processes as an integral part of
its implementation. The allocation of
staff from user functions and expert
business analysts to articulating user
requirements will help ensure that the
system implementation achieves the
process improvements sought and
secures future efficiency improvements
through selecting the most appropriate
software for the Organization.

Licence

Licence fees comprise the bulk of initial
costs. In packaged enterprise application
software such as enterprise resource
planning, licence cost depends largely on
the number of users.

The existence of well-crafted volume
enterprise agreements may offer an
attractive arrangement for the
Organization, potentially providing long-
term savings over 10-year time frames.
Any such agreement should be aimed at
reducing the total overall cost per user
per year.

Implementation

In the medium-term, professional
services for implementation constitute
the greatest cost. A factor critical to the
success of enterprise resource planning
implementation will be the creation of
programme management offices.

It must be recognized at the outset that
this crucial infrastructure will require
additional staffing and therefore incur
additional implementation costs. Added
implementation cost drivers include the
degree of global deployment models
utilized and the amount of customization
required on major screens.

Maintenance and support

Maintenance fees are typically calculated
off the net price for total licences and
average a significant 20 to 25 per cent.

Controlling the annual maintenance fee
increase will be a critical factor in
holding down overall project costs on a
10-year basis.



20

A/60/846/Add.1

Training

Key determinants of overall training
costs include the current employee skill
set, responsibility level, training delivery
modes and timing of training
programmes.

“Train the trainer” programmes serve the
dual purpose of reducing overall costs
and simultaneously building critical
internal knowledge capital.

Change management

Emphasis on change management is a
consistent factor of successful enterprise
resource planning implementations,
representing between 18 and 25 per cent
of the overall cost. The complexity of
change management in an organization
such as the United Nations should not be
underestimated.

It will be critical that key stakeholders
devote appropriate time to engaging in
high and detailed level process
definition/design and infrastructure
design exercises. As enterprise resource
planning implementations are inherently
risky and subject to cost overruns, a cost
control strategy will be necessary to
manage customizations that increase the
risk of project delays and cost escalation.
Needless customizations often enshrine
bad practices, reduce the potential
benefits of the new system and increase
the complexity of future upgrades. This
results in a higher total cost of
ownership.

Capacity

It is assumed that the cost of support
includes internal and external resources.
Related to change management costs is
the cost of temporarily filling existing
positions while staff are on secondment.

As key employees are engaged in design
and implementation activities, sufficient
budget should be dedicated to securing
additional resources to continue
operations with minimal disruption.

Upgrade costs

Depending on vendor selection, upgrades
may or may not be included in licence
costs.

In a scenario in which upgrade costs are
not included, the cost of acquiring a new
licence every seven years should be
considered. Furthermore, even if
upgrades are included in the maintenance
fees, there will be costs associated with
necessary labour and infrastructure
accompanying the technology upgrades.

67. Cost drivers influence the initial outlay, deployment cost and overall
ownership costs for packaged applications. The primary cost drivers shift over the
project’s lifetime. As expected with regard to initial outlay, main expenditures
include definition of user needs, licence fees and training costs as well as costs for
temporarily filling existing positions. As the project progresses to deployment in the
first and second years, implementation, change management and training costs will



21

A/60/846/Add.1

constitute the majority of costs. Finally, upon deployment in the third year, the main
cost drivers will become maintenance and support, including the cost of upgrades.

68. The cost study would include a strategic and tactical plan for cost control. The
Secretariat demographic and the potential for United Nations system partners should
enable the Organization to leverage a strong negotiating position, which may lower
licensing costs. Terms and conditions obtained from the selected software vendor
must be available to any entity of the United Nations system. The package should
include initial software licences as well as annual maintenance costs. These
strategies should bring the advantage of economies of scale to any purchasing
arrangement.

69. The cost study would also outline drivers, line items and cost controls
measures, and will include full elaboration of the budgetary requirements for the
remaining of the current and next bienniums.

4. Implementation strategy

70. The ultimate success of an enterprise resource planning solution would depend
on an effective and integrated implementation strategy that leverages United
Nations system-wide expertise and resources. Past experiences at the Secretariat and
other peer organizations have shown that successful implementation requires strict
adherence to certain key principles from the outset and throughout the life of the
project:

(a) Commitment and engagement of key functional managers and senior
decision makers in developing specifications and in implementing the system;

(b) Limited and controlled customization of the software package;

(c) Streamlined process for funding and oversight of the project to minimize
unnecessary and costly delays;

(d) Expedited mechanisms for transparency in procuring software, hardware
and services, which would need to be properly sequenced during implementation;

(e) Single integrated project management team empowered to make and
implement the numerous far-reaching decisions that would need to be taken as part
of this process, with the full support and backing of all major stakeholders;

(f) Significant and sustained investment in change management activities
focused on training, education and knowledge transfer as the centrepiece of the
transition;

(g) Partnership with the selected information technology vendor to sustain
current requirements, support future development efforts and design future
functionality.

71. The new system would be deployed in all offices of the Secretariat, including
all field missions. Customization of the “off-the-shelf” solution must be limited; if
necessary the United Nations should adjust its processes to fit the solution rather
than customizing the solution to fit the processes. Preference would be given to a
solution already working in a fund, programme or specialized agency.

72. Building a strong project team will be a priority of the implementation
strategy. Internal project members with a thorough knowledge of business practices



22

A/60/846/Add.1

will be assigned to the project team on a full-time basis for the life of the project.
Their positions should be temporarily filled while they are seconded to the
enterprise resource planning project and the costs associated should be built into the
project’s budget and the enterprise resource planning business case.

73. Accountability and ultimate management responsibility for the enterprise
resource planning project will rest with the Chief Information Technology Officer,
who is to be accountable to the Under-Secretary-General for Management. The
Chief Information Technology Officer will be guided by a steering committee
composed of representatives of key stakeholder departments.

5. Timetable for implementation

74. Case studies from other enterprise resource planning implementations
throughout the United Nations system suggest that such implementations are most
successful when preceded by business process reform and significant change
management efforts. Good practice indicates that enterprise resource planning
systems should be leveraged to enforce and reinforce the process reforms that
precede them, and that there should be close interdependence with the timeline for
the introduction of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards in terms of
processes evolving in tandem with supporting systems to create and reinforce a
virtuous loop. The need for properly sequencing the reform and the implementation
of enterprise resource planning needs to be weighed against the critical urgency of
some of the functionality gaps, which expose the Organization to control risk as
operational volume increasingly places stress on outdated current systems. In view
of the above, the target “live” date for implementation would be the second half of
2009, so that it can support compliance with International Public Sector Accounting
Standards by 2010. This target live date is dependent on the selection of an
enterprise resource planning system that would need only limited customization,
necessitating the selection of a system similar to those implemented in other United
Nations entities (funds, programmes or specialized agencies).

75. In order to meet this deadline, the challenges of navigating existing budget and
procurement processes need to be addressed upfront. However, due to the sensitive
and critical nature of this choice, the Secretariat must explore the potential for
creating a fast-track process for managing resources and procurement for this
project while maintaining full accountability and transparency. Specifics in this
regard and the associated resource requirements, including upgraded
communications arrangements for field operations (peacekeeping operations, offices
away from Headquarters, special political missions), will be provided at the sixty-
first session.

76. A detailed timetable indicating the schedule of activities and resource
allocations will be supplied as part of the cost study and implementation strategy.
The study will be developed by a team comprising in-house resources and expertise
from agencies of the United Nations system that have carried out enterprise resource
planning initiatives. It will include provision for annual reports by the Secretariat to
the General Assembly on progress in implementing the mandate to replace IMIS
with a next generation enterprise resource planning.



23

A/60/846/Add.1

6. Transition planning

77. Arrangements for the continuation of the present systems during the
transitional period are a priority consideration in establishing a continuity of
existing processes and migration towards replacement and deployment. The details
of migration will be included as part of the detailed timetable.

7. Readiness measures

78. In order to ensure that the prospective proposal is fully reflective of the
market, technology and the organizational landscape, consultancy support for the
preparation of a detailed implementation plan and the requisite procurement
documentation is recommended. This external support will enable the Secretariat to:
draw from the experience and lessons learned of similar industry projects; benefit
from a deep analysis of technology vendors; benefit from a comprehensive user
needs analysis and requirements definition; and provide strategic support for how
best to position the United Nations solution. With the assistance of advisory
services, the Organization will be better situated to effectively make its choice from
the enterprise resource planning systems available on the market. Expert support
will complement ongoing in-house efforts and will reinforce the design and
credibility of the comprehensive report. Approval of funding in the amount of
$1,500,000 for consultancy support for a period of six to eight months is requested.

8. Conclusions and recommendations

79. The Secretariat is committed to this initiative. The Secretary-General
recommends that the General Assembly endorse the course of action proposed in the
present report and the level of resources, amounting to $300,000 under section 28D,
Office of Central Support Services, and $1,500,000 under section 28A, Office of the
Under-Secretary-General for Management, of the programme budget for the
biennium 2006-2007, to provide consultancy services to assist with the analysis and
preparation of a detailed implementation and deployment plan and develop the user
needs definition. A further $360,000 under section 28A, Office of the Under-
Secretary-General for Management, of the programme budget for the biennium
2006-2007, for general temporary assistance is requested to provide temporary
replacement of staff seconded to the user needs definition process. The
comprehensive report of costings and timetable will be presented to the General
Assembly at its sixty-first session.

IV. Action required of the General Assembly

80. The General Assembly may wish to:

(a) Approve the establishment of the post of the Chief Information
Technology Officer;

(b) Decide to replace IMIS with a next generation enterprise resource
planning system to ensure that the Organization provides a high level of
transparency and accountability with respect to its global resource
management requirements, including all information technology needs arising
from the adoption of International Public Sector Accounting Standards;



24

A/60/846/Add.1

(c) Appropriate a total amount of $2,550,700, comprising $2,005,600
under section 28A, Office of the Under-Secretary-General for Management,
$466,000 under section 28D, Office of Central Support Services, and $79,100
under section 35, Staff assessment, to be offset by an equivalent amount under
income section 1, Income from staff assessment, under the programme budget
for the biennium 2006-2007;

(d) Request the Secretary-General to provide a comprehensive report to
the Assembly at the first part of its resumed sixty-first session outlining the
scope, timetable, strategy and detailed resource requirements for replacing
IMIS no later than 2009.


