
 United Nations A/RES/60/283 

 

General Assembly Distr.: General 17 August 2006 

Sixtieth session 
Agenda items 46, 118, 120, 122, 124, 128, 129 and 136 

 

05-50458 

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly 

[on the report of the Fifth Committee (A/60/831/Add.1)] 

60/283. Investing in the United Nations for a stronger 
Organization worldwide: detailed report 

 The General Assembly, 

 Recalling its resolutions 41/213 of 19 December 1986, 60/1 of 16 September 
2005 and 60/260 of 8 May 2006, 

 Reaffirming the role of the General Assembly and its relevant 
intergovernmental and expert bodies, within their respective mandates, in planning, 
programming, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation, 

 Stressing the need for Member States to participate in the budget preparation 
process, from its early stages and throughout the process, 

 Having considered the report of the Secretary-General entitled “Investing in 
the United Nations: for a stronger Organization worldwide: detailed report”1 and the 
related report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions,2 

 1. Renews its appeal to Member States to demonstrate their commitment to 
the United Nations by, inter alia, meeting their financial obligations on time, in full 
and without conditions, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and 
the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations; 

 2. Endorses the conclusions and recommendations of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions contained in its report,2 
subject to the provisions of the present resolution; 
 

I 

Oversight and accountability 

 1. Requests the Secretary-General to ensure the full operationalization of 
the Ethics Office, including through the expeditious filling of vacancies; 

_______________ 
1 A/60/846 and Add.1-4. 
2 A/60/870. 



A/RES/60/283 

2 

 2. Emphasizes the need for strengthening oversight in the Organization, and 
stresses the importance of strengthened accountability in the Organization and of 
ensuring greater accountability of the Secretary-General to Member States, inter 
alia, for the effective and efficient implementation of legislative mandates and the 
use of human and financial resources; 

 3. Looks forward to considering the results of the independent external 
evaluation of the audit and oversight system of the United Nations, as well as other 
relevant reports in this regard, and to taking action on proposals contained therein 
on, inter alia, ensuring the full operational independence of the Office of Internal 
Oversight Services and strengthening the evaluation capacity of the Office at the 
programme and subprogramme levels, as well as any budget requirements; 

 4. Recalls section XIII, paragraph 4, of its resolution 60/248 of 
23 December 2005, whereby it established the Independent Audit Advisory 
Committee, and looks forward to considering and taking action on its proposed 
terms of reference with a view to operationalizing it; 
 

II 

Information and communication technology 

 1. Decides to establish the post of Chief Information Technology Officer at 
the level of Assistant Secretary-General in the Executive Office of the Secretary-
General; 

 2. Requests the Secretary-General to rejustify the level and resource 
requirements for the post of Chief Information Technology Officer in the Executive 
Office of the Secretary-General, in the context of the proposed programme budget 
for the biennium 2008–2009 to be considered at its sixty-second session, taking 
fully into account the existing staffing structure and resources dedicated to 
information and communication technology functions in the Organization; 

 3. Also requests the Secretary-General to provide to the General Assembly, 
at its resumed sixty-first session, detailed information on the structure and staffing 
requirements of the envisaged information and communication technology structure, 
as well as the lines of responsibility, the functions of the proposed structure and its 
relationship with other information and communication technology units in the 
Secretariat, offices away from Headquarters, regional commissions, peacekeeping 
operations, special political missions and other field offices; 

 4. Decides to replace the Integrated Management Information System with 
a next-generation enterprise resource planning system or other comparable system; 

 5. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly, at its 
resumed sixty-first session, the comprehensive report referred to in paragraphs 17 
and 18 of his report,3 and to respond to relevant General Assembly resolutions, 
including on the following matters: 

 (a) Substantive improvements to the information and communication 
technology systems that may be required, including the systems at offices away 
from Headquarters, the regional commissions and peacekeeping operations; 

_______________ 
3 A/60/846/Add.1. 



A/RES/60/283 

3 

 (b) A detailed implementation plan, including on the user needs, scope, 
timetable, strategy and detailed resource requirements and information technology 
needs arising from the adoption of the International Public Sector Accounting 
Standards; 

 (c) The expected contribution of the information and communication 
technology system to enhancing the effective and transparent use of the resources of 
the Organization; 

 (d) Any revisions to the existing information and communication technology 
strategy that may be required, bearing in mind requests previously made by the 
General Assembly in its consideration of the 2002 information and communication 
technology strategy, including its resolutions 56/239 of 24 December 2001 and 
57/304 of 15 April 2003; 

 (e) Projected resource requirements over the life cycle of the project; 

 (f) A detailed explanation and concrete examples of how it is envisaged that 
the proposals will enhance the effectiveness of the work of the Organization and 
address current deficiencies; 

 (g) A clear definition of the terminologies and rationale for the proposals; 

 (h) An assessment of previous investments in information and 
communication technology, as well as lessons learned and expected time frames for 
introducing the proposed system and arrangements for the continuation of the 
current system during the transitional period; 

 6. Decides to revert to the consideration of the report of the Joint Inspection 
Unit on policies of United Nations system organizations towards the use of open-
source software in the secretariats4 at its resumed sixty-first session; 
 

III 

Limited budgetary discretion  

 1. Recalls its resolution 59/275 of 23 December 2004, in which it set the 
priorities for the Organization for the biennium 2006–2007; 

 2. Reaffirms the role and prerogative of Member States in setting the 
priorities of the Organization, as reflected in legislative decisions; 

 3. Reaffirms its role in carrying out a thorough analysis and approval of 
human and financial resources and policies with a view to ensuring full, effective 
and efficient implementation of all mandated programmes and activities and the 
implementation of policies in this regard; 

 4. Emphasizes again that the resources proposed by the Secretary-General 
should be commensurate with all mandated programmes and activities in order to 
ensure their full, efficient and effective implementation; 

 5. Recalls paragraph 11 of its resolution 60/246 of 23 December 2005, 
whereby it recognized the need for limited discretion in budgetary implementation 
for the Secretary-General, within defined parameters to be agreed by the General 
Assembly along with clear accountability mechanisms to the Assembly for its use; 

_______________ 
4 A/60/665. 



A/RES/60/283 

4 

 6. Decides to authorize the Secretary-General, on an experimental basis, a 
limited discretion for budgetary implementation for the bienniums 2006–2007 and 
2008–2009, to enter into commitments up to 20 million United States dollars in each 
biennium for positions and non-post requirements for the purpose of meeting the 
evolving needs of the Organization in attaining its mandated programmes and 
activities; 

 7. Also decides to authorize the Secretary-General to utilize the Working 
Capital Fund to finance the implementation of the authorization referred to in 
paragraph 6 above, which shall be offset by savings identified and attained, 
including through the efficient use and assignment of resources, during the course of 
each biennium within the authorized appropriation level, as reported in the 
performance reports; 

 8. Decides that the authorization referred to in paragraph 6 above shall be 
implemented in accordance with the following principles: 

 (a) The experiment shall not be utilized for unforeseen and extraordinary 
expenses that are authorized in respect of the maintenance of peace and security; 

 (b) The experiment shall not imply any changes in the human resources 
management policies of the Organization; 

 (c) The proposed programme budget shall remain the principal instrument in 
which the Secretary-General sets out the resources and staffing requirements of the 
Organization, including the requirements for all reform proposals as agreed by 
Member States; 

 (d) The experiment shall in no way prevent the Secretary-General from 
requesting additional posts during the course of the experiment; 

 (e) The experiment shall not be implemented in pursuance of General 
Assembly resolutions calling for the implementation of decisions “within existing 
resources”; 

 (f) The experiment shall not imply any changes to the provisions guiding the 
use of the contingency fund; 

 (g) The utilization of authorization shall be exercised with the prior 
concurrence of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
when the total amount utilized exceeds 6 million dollars per biennium; 

 (h) The experiment shall not alter the priorities of the Organization as agreed 
by the General Assembly; 

 (i) The utilization of the funds provided for under the experiment shall be 
subject to the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations; 

 9. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly, 
through the Advisory Committee, in the context of the performance reports, on the 
utilization of all commitments made within the context of the experiment, together 
with the circumstances relating thereto, as well as the impact on programme 
delivery and the ability to meet the evolving needs of the Organization; 

 10. Decides to review the experiment at its sixty-fourth session with a view 
to taking a final decision on its continuation, and requests the Secretary-General to 
submit a comprehensive report on the implementation of the experiment for its 
consideration, including the following aspects: 

 (a) The utilization of the experiment during the course of the two bienniums; 



A/RES/60/283 

5 

 (b) Implications, if any, for the human resources management policies and 
the Financial Regulations and Rules; 

 (c) The impact on programme delivery, as well as on the priorities of the 
Organization as set by Member States; 

 (d) The criteria used by the Secretary-General to define the evolving needs 
of the Organization; 

 11. Recalls paragraph 14 of its resolution 58/270 of 23 December 2003 and 
paragraph 7 of its resolution 60/246, decides that the experiment will not be 
extended beyond the current biennium, and requests the Secretary-General to report 
to the General Assembly at its sixty-second session on the results of the experiment 
as well as lessons learned that can be applied to the experiment referred to in 
paragraph 6 above; 

 12. Requests the Secretary-General to expeditiously implement paragraph 8 
of its resolution 60/246 and to report thereon in the context of the first performance 
report on the programme budget for the biennium 2006-2007; 

 13. Recalls its request to the Secretary-General to specifically define 
accountability as well as clear accountability mechanisms, including to the General 
Assembly, and to propose clear parameters for their application and the instruments 
for their rigorous enforcement, without exception, at all levels; 

 14. Recognizes that it will consider the related report of the Secretary-
General referred to in paragraph 13 above at its sixty-first session with a view to 
taking decisions to strengthen accountability in the Organization; 
 

IV 

Financial management practices 

International Public Sector Accounting Standards 

 1. Decides to approve the adoption by the United Nations of the 
International Public Sector Accounting Standards; 

 2. Approves the resources requested to permit the Secretary-General to 
begin implementation of the Standards, bearing in mind paragraph 42 of the report 
of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions;2 

 

Working Capital Fund 

 3. Recalls its resolution 60/250 of 23 December 2005; 

 4. Resolves that the Working Capital Fund for the biennium 2006–2007 
shall be increased to 150 million dollars effective from 1 January 2007; 

 5. Also resolves that Member States shall make advances to the Working 
Capital Fund in accordance with the scale of assessments to be adopted by the 
General Assembly for contributions to the regular budget for the year 2007; 

 6. Further resolves that there shall be set off against these advances: 

 (a) The surplus balance of the programme budget for the biennium  
2004–2005; 

 (b) Cash advances paid by Member States to the Working Capital Fund for 
the biennium 2006–2007 in accordance with General Assembly resolution 60/250; 
 



A/RES/60/283 

6 

V 

Improving reporting mechanisms: public access  
to United Nations documentation 

Comprehensive annual report 

 1. Emphasizes the importance of providing the information necessary to 
enable Member States to make well-informed decisions; 

 2. Reaffirms that all reports pertaining to administrative and budgetary 
matters are subject to the consideration of the Fifth Committee as the appropriate 
Main Committee of the General Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for those 
matters; 

 3. Takes note of the intention of the Secretary-General to prepare a single 
comprehensive annual report containing both financial and programme information, 
with the aim of enhancing the transparency of the Organization and the 
accountability of the Secretariat to Member States; 

 4. Emphasizes that the report would be developed in the context of 
paragraphs 68 and 69 of the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions,2 bearing in mind paragraph 2 above; 

 5. Also emphasizes that the report would be complementary in nature and 
would not replace the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization required under Article 98 of the Charter of the United Nations, nor 
reports that are subject to the consideration of the Fifth Committee; 
 

Public access 

 6. Notes the proposal of the Secretary-General on the policy for access to 
United Nations documentation by Member States and the public and also the 
observations of the Advisory Committee thereon, and requests the Secretary-
General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-first session, for 
consideration and action, a comprehensive report containing detailed parameters of 
the above proposal, including information on resource requirements, financing 
mechanisms and the possibility of a fee structure, and also addressing the 
implementation of the existing mandates governing the issue of facilitating the 
access of Member States and the public to United Nations documentation and 
information materials, as contained in relevant resolutions of the General Assembly; 
 

VI 

Procurement 

 Authorizes the Secretary-General to enter into commitments of up to 706,600 
dollars to strengthen the United Nations procurement system, including by 
enhancing internal controls and developing business seminar programmes for 
vendors in developing countries, pending consideration of and action on the report 
of the Secretary-General on procurement reform5 by the General Assembly at its 
sixty-first session; 
 

_______________ 
5 A/60/846/Add.5. 



A/RES/60/283 

7 

VII 

Future consideration of management reform 

 1. Decides to defer consideration of the following proposals contained in 
the addendum on financial management practices6 to the above-mentioned detailed 
report of the Secretary-General as follows: 

 (a) Consolidation of peacekeeping accounts and increases in the 
Peacekeeping Reserve Fund and commitment authority for peacekeeping operations 
(paragraphs 112 (b) to (l)) — until the second part of its resumed sixty-first session; 

 (b) Establishment of a reserve fund (paragraphs 112 (p) and (q)) — within 
the context of the programme budget for the biennium 2008–2009; 

 2. Looks forward to considering at its sixty-first session proposals on: 

 (a) Governance, oversight and accountability; 

 (b) Human resources management; 

 (c) Procurement; 

 (d) Administration of justice; 

 3. Reaffirms its intention to continue the consideration of measures to fulfil 
the commitments made by Heads of State and Government in the 2005 World 
Summit Outcome7 to strengthen the United Nations by ensuring the efficient and 
effective functioning of the Organization and a culture of accountability, 
transparency and integrity in the Secretariat; 

 4. Pledges to provide the United Nations with adequate resources, on a 
timely basis, to enable the Organization to implement its mandates and achieve its 
objectives, having regard to the priorities agreed by the General Assembly and the 
need to respect budget discipline; 
 

VIII 

Appropriation 

 1. Approves an additional appropriation of 4,433,100 dollars in the 
programme budget for the biennium 2006–2007, broken down as follows: 
 

Section 
Amount 

(United States dollars) 

1. Overall policymaking, direction and coordination 145 600 

28A. Office of the Under-Secretary-General for Management 1 860 000 

28B. Office of Programme Planning, Budget and Accounts 1 428 900 

28D. Office of Central Support Services 574 600 

30. Jointly financed administrative activities 424 000 

 Total 4 433 100 

_______________ 
6 A/60/846/Add.3. 
7 See resolution 60/1. 



A/RES/60/283 

8 

 2. Also approves an additional appropriation in the amount of 127,300 
dollars under section 35, Staff assessment, to be offset by an equivalent amount 
under income section 1, Income from staff assessment. 

 

93rd plenary meeting 
7 July 2006 


