
 United Nations  A/67/770

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
1 March 2013 
 
Original: English 

 

13-24662 (E)    070313 
*1324662*   

Agenda item 128  
Financial reports and audited financial statements,  
and reports of the Board of Auditors 

 
 
 

  Report of the Board of Auditors on the handling of 
information and communications technology affairs 
in the Secretariat 
 
 

  Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions 
 
 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has 
considered the report of the Board of Auditors on the handling of information and 
communications technology (ICT) affairs in the Secretariat (A/67/651). The 
Committee also had before it the report of the Secretary-General on the 
implementation of the recommendations contained in the Board’s report 
(A/67/651/Add.1), as well as a separate memorandum prepared by the Board setting 
out its detailed findings and recommendations on information security. The Advisory 
Committee is of the opinion that it is up to the Board to determine whether and how 
it wishes to disclose the details of this memorandum to the General Assembly.  

2. During its consideration of the above-mentioned reports, the Advisory 
Committee met with the members of the Audit Operations Committee as well as 
with representatives of the Secretary-General, who provided clarification and 
additional information in writing, concluding with written responses submitted on 
28 February 2013.  

3. The Advisory Committee recalls that in its resolution 66/246,1 the General 
Assembly decided that the Office of Information and Communications Technology 
and its budget would be placed under the Department of Management and that the 
Chief Information Technology Officer would report to the head of the Department of 

__________________ 

 1  In that resolution, the General Assembly also took action on the governance structure of the 
enterprise resource planning project and requested the Advisory Committee to request the Board 
of Auditors to conduct a comprehensive audit of the implementation of the project and to report 
annually to the General Assembly, starting at the main part of its sixty-seventh session (see 
A/67/164, A/67/360 and A/67/565). 



A/67/770  
 

13-24662 2 
 

Management. The Assembly requested the Committee to request the Board of 
Auditors to audit and evaluate the handling of ICT affairs in the Secretariat, 
including the Office of Information and Communications Technology, and to report 
thereon to the Assembly at the main part of its sixty-seventh session. The Committee 
conveyed the Assembly’s request to the Board in a letter dated 17 January 2012.  

4. The report of the Board of Auditors contains its findings and recommendations 
resulting from an audit undertaken in October 2012 in response to the aforementioned 
request. The report reflects, where appropriate, the Administration’s comments on 
the findings, conclusions and recommendations of the Board (A/67/651, para. 13). 
The Secretary-General’s response contained in the addendum to the report provides, 
in particular, an update on the implementation of the recommendations related to 
strengthening the security of information and systems across the Secretariat.  
 
 

 II. Background 
 
 

5. Background information is provided in paragraphs 1 to 10 of the report of the 
Board. It is noted that the effective provision of ICT services is essential in 
supporting a wide range of critical administrative and operational activities, both at 
Headquarters and in the field, in the areas of peacekeeping, security, development, 
human rights, international affairs and humanitarian assistance. In its resolution 
66/246, the General Assembly underlined the importance of information and 
communications technology in meeting the growing demands of the Organization as 
it becomes increasingly reliant on its ICT infrastructure. The Assembly also 
highlighted the importance of information and communications technology in 
strengthening oversight and accountability and in increasing the availability of 
accurate and timely information to support decision-making.  

6. The Advisory Committee has frequently stressed the need for a coherent, 
coordinated and accountable approach to managing ICT activities, not only within 
the Secretariat but also across the United Nations system.2 The Secretary-General 
has acknowledged that the lack of effective governance and leadership in this area 
has resulted in a high level of duplication and fragmentation of the ICT function of 
the Secretariat, with the creation of multiple ICT units in various departments and at 
various duty stations, the lack of common standards and processes, the piecemeal 
development of systems and the proliferation of duplicate and incompatible databases. 
Such fragmentation has led to the inefficient and ineffective use of resources, 
increasing the costs of ICT systems and infrastructure and making it difficult to 
identify overall expenditures and assets (see A/60/692 and A/60/846/Add.1).  

7. The Advisory Committee recalls that, as early as the fiftieth session of the 
General Assembly, it highlighted the role of technology in realizing efficiency gains 
and increasing productivity in the delivery of programmes and services, and also 
called for a long-term coordinated ICT strategy and a plan for its implementation 
throughout the Secretariat, including all duty stations (A/50/7/Add.16, para. 37). 
The General Assembly first requested the Secretary-General to develop a 
comprehensive strategy for the development and implementation of information 
technology in its resolution 54/249. The initial proposals of the Secretary-General 

__________________ 

 2  See A/54/7, paras. 80-92; A/55/7/Add.8; A/56/7, paras. 80-94; A/57/772, paras. 100-106; A/58/7, 
paras. 114-126; A/60/7, paras. 110-112; A/60/735 and Corr.1, paras. 15-18; and A/60/870, para. 16.  



 A/67/770
 

3 13-24662 
 

for an ICT strategy and a plan of action to guide the development of ICT at the 
United Nations, submitted at the fifty-fifth and fifty-seventh sessions, did not produce 
the desired results.3 Subsequently, in the context of management reform initiatives 
launched in response to the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1), the 
Assembly approved the Secretary-General’s proposals to establish the post of Chief 
Information Technology Officer and to replace the Integrated Management 
Information System with a next-generation enterprise resource planning system 
(resolution 60/283).  

8. In 2008 the General Assembly, in its resolution 63/262, adopted a new ICT 
strategy for the United Nations.4 The three broad goals of the strategy were: (a) to 
align ICT with the mission and work programmes of the Secretariat; (b) to allow 
personnel and their stakeholders to connect and share knowledge anytime, 
anywhere; and (c) to deploy and utilize institutional resources efficiently (see 
A/62/793, para. 13).  

9. That ICT strategy was based on strong central leadership for the establishment 
and implementation of Organization-wide ICT standards and activities and a 
decentralized approach to operations. Three broad areas of critical requirements were 
identified that needed to be addressed in a coherent manner across the Secretariat and 
delivered centrally: (a) resource management to aid administrative groups in managing 
financial, human, physical and other resources; (b) knowledge management to aid 
substantive and other departments in managing their unstructured information; and 
(c) infrastructure management to aid ICT specialists in providing secure and continuous 
operations, including data centres, communications, service desks and disaster 
recovery and business continuity capabilities.  

10. Three Organization-wide programmes were established in the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology at the time of its creation, in January 
2009, to deliver the approved ICT strategy over a three- to five-year period. For 
each programme, the strategy set out the goals, objectives and key actions to be 
undertaken to address gaps and organizational requirements, as well as the expected 
benefits. It was envisaged that a number of projects would be planned and 
implemented over the next five years under each of the three programmes. For 
example, the enterprise content management project was to be implemented under 
the knowledge management programme, and the resource management programme 
would cover the customer relationship management (iNeed) and enterprise resource 
planning systems. It was expected that as those enterprise-wide systems were 
implemented and a common set of standards, processes and tools were adopted, the 
level of fragmentation and duplication would decrease.  

11. The strategy approved by the General Assembly in 2008 also established an 
ICT management structure and governance framework comprising: (a) a high-level 
executive committee on ICT to make decisions on investments and priorities; 
(b) advisory groups representing the client departments of ICT services to provide 
input on their requirements and priorities; (c) a Chief Information Technology 
Officer responsible for the overall direction and performance of ICT activities in the 
Organization; (d) a central, independent Office of Information and Communications 

__________________ 

 3  See the reports of the Secretary-General on the ICT strategy: A/55/780 and A/57/620; related 
reports of the Advisory Committee: A/56/7 and A/58/7; and General Assembly resolutions 
56/239 and 57/304. 

 4  See also A/62/793 and Add.1 and A/63/487. 



A/67/770  
 

13-24662 4 
 

Technology,5 headed by the Chief Information Technology Officer and reporting to 
the Executive Office of the Secretary-General through the Deputy Secretary-
General, to provide central leadership in the area of ICT for the Organization, set 
Organization-wide standards and policies, plan and coordinate Secretariat-wide 
activities, provide enterprise systems and infrastructure and consolidate the 
“strategic” or central functions previously performed by ICT units across the 
Secretariat, as well as to deliver ICT services at Headquarters; and (e) decentralized 
ICT units in Secretariat departments and at offices away from Headquarters to 
provide departmental systems and services based on organizational standards 
established by the Office of Information and Communications Technology and to 
deal with local and operational issues. The structure of the Office of Information 
and Communications Technology was aligned with the ICT strategy and its three 
Organization-wide programmes.  

12. In addition, the ICT strategy envisaged the development of: (a) a performance 
management framework to improve objective tracking of key measures of 
performance, staff skills and management of ICT resources in order to enhance 
service delivery; (b) a global service-oriented architecture and strong technical 
standards to ensure harmonization and interoperability in order to enable the 
consolidation of ICT assets, systems and services and drive down acquisition and 
maintenance costs; and (c) a global financial framework to enforce financial discipline 
and accountability for all spending on ICT and reduce costs through consolidation, 
centralized purchasing and improved efficiency, with a view to making more funds 
available for discretionary programmes.  

13. The Secretary-General also submitted in a separate report (A/62/510/Rev.1) 
proposals for enterprise systems to be managed centrally for the entire Organization 
under the authority of the Chief Information Technology Officer, namely, enterprise 
content management, customer relationship management and enterprise resource 
planning, including, for each system, the proposed governance structure, 
implementation strategy, timetable and budget estimates. In its resolution 63/262, 
the General Assembly recognized the benefits of the implementation of the customer 
relationship management and enterprise content management systems and requested 
the Secretary-General to continue to implement those applications throughout the 
Organization, as appropriate, under the authority of the Chief Information Technology 
Officer in order to ensure a coordinated approach to the development of enterprise 
systems. The Assembly provided $2 million of the $22 million requested by the 
Secretary-General for the implementation of those projects, and asked him to meet 
the remaining requirements from within the overall resources appropriated under the 
programme budget. The Assembly also approved the implementation of the enterprise 
resource planning system and the proposed governance framework of the project, 
under which the project director would report to the Under-Secretary-General for 

__________________ 

 5  Established under a separate budget section pursuant to General Assembly resolution 63/262, 
through the redeployment of the entire staffing and resources (regular budget, support account 
and extrabudgetary) of the Information Technology Services Division of the Office of Central 
Support Services of the Department of Management; the transfer of the “strategic activities” of 
the Information and Communications Technology Division of the Department of Field Support 
with the redeployment of peacekeeping support account resources in the amount of $5,017,500 
(comprising $4,255,500 for non-post resources and $760,000 to provide for the redeployment of 
10 posts (3 P-4, 4 P-3, 2 P-2, 1 General Service (Other level)); and the redeployment of the post 
of the Chief Information Technology Officer from budget section 1.  



 A/67/770
 

5 13-24662 
 

Management in her capacity as the Chair of the Enterprise Resource Planning 
Steering Committee and to the Chief Information Technology Officer on day-to-day 
project management and technology issues. Subsequently, at the request of the 
Assembly, in its resolution 64/243, the Secretary-General submitted annual progress 
reports on the implementation of the enterprise resource planning project (Umoja).  

14. Following the adoption of the ICT strategy in 2008, the General Assembly, in its 
resolution 63/262, requested the Secretary-General to provide a comprehensive 
inventory of ICT capacities across the Secretariat, including both dedicated and 
part-time personnel. On the basis of a preliminary review in 2008 and a more 
comprehensive assessment of more than 70 ICT units conducted in 2010, the 
Secretary-General, in his progress report on the implementation of the ICT strategy 
(A/65/491), for the first time provided estimates of overall Secretariat expenditures, 
assets, resources and staffing for ICT, which are summarized in the table below. The key 
findings of the review were that the ICT environment and processes of the 
Organization remained highly decentralized, fragmented, duplicative and 
non-standardized, thereby driving up the costs of operations and preventing the 
Organization from realizing economies of scale. Furthermore, a large proportion of 
resources were directed towards infrastructure and routine operational tasks, and 
ICT support for programmatic, substantive, administrative and managerial activities 
was lacking. The review revealed that expenditures of the United Nations on ICT 
were high, rising to some $774 million, with a total staff count of more than 4,200, 
including personnel financed by regular budget, peacekeeping, support account and 
extrabudgetary sources, some 70 ICT units, 211 data centres and server rooms, 
131 service desks and 1,994 application programmes.  
 

  Key ICT statistics based on the 2010 structural review  
 

Key indicators Headquarters

Offices 
away from 

Headquarters, 
regional 

commissions, 
others

Peacekeeping 
and special 

political 
missions Total 

Annual ICT budget  
(millions of United States dollars) 149 62 563 774 

ICT personnel 770 688 2 761 4 219 

ICT job titles – – – 173 

ICT units 21 15 34 70 

Application programmes 841 825 328 1 994 

Physical servers 888 1 322 2 347 4 557 

Data centres/server rooms 8 89 114 211 

Desktop computers and laptops  17 244 18 435 48 117 83 796 

ICT service desks 20 27 84 131 

Service desk requests (annual) 292 511 225 597 628 521 1 146 629 
 
 

15. In his progress report (A/65/491), the Secretary-General also highlighted the 
difficulties encountered in determining consolidated budget and staffing figures. 
Because of the lack of consistent and comparable data across the Organization, the 
overall budget estimate was based on a time-consuming manual compilation of 



A/67/770  
 

13-24662 6 
 

information from a variety of documents, making it difficult to track the costs of ICT 
activities on a regular basis. Similar difficulties were encountered in determining the 
number of staff, owing in particular to the existence of multiple repositories based 
on the type of personnel (staff, contractors, consultants, volunteers) and the lack of 
standard ICT job titles. For example, the staff count did not include personnel who 
performed ICT functions but were not a part of a formal ICT unit or did not hold an 
ICT job title. The Secretary-General noted that the inability to easily monitor and 
report on the Secretariat-wide ICT budget and staffing significantly limited the 
effective global management of ICT. He highlighted the need for a consistent and 
streamlined global chart of accounts and a supporting financial system with the 
capability of tracking the costs of ICT activities on a regular basis, as well as 
standardized functional titles and job descriptions for ICT personnel.  

16. On the basis of the findings of the review, the Secretary-General proposed four 
structural review projects aimed at streamlining and standardizing the ICT environment 
across the Secretariat: (a) globalize service desks to reduce their number, provide 
round-the-clock service and introduce automated and standardized service desk 
technologies and self-service tools for end users; (b) streamline and consolidate data 
centres, server rooms and servers, establishing a minimum number of enterprise and 
duty station data centres, and provide round-the-clock service; (c) rationalize the 
ICT organization, establishing the boundaries of ICT functions, implementing a 
global staffing model, reviewing ICT units and formulating recommendations for 
the implementation of organizational change in the ICT management structure, 
including the consolidation of multiple ICT units within the same department; and 
(d) strengthen the Office of Information and Communications Technology, 
augmenting its capacities in such strategic, high-priority areas as policy formulation, 
oversight and coordination, architecture and standard-setting, enterprise application 
development, global portfolio management and conduct of departmental ICT budget 
reviews. The overall resources proposed for the four projects over a five-year 
implementation period from 2011 to 2015 amounted to $140.7 million, proposed to 
be funded on the basis of a cost-sharing arrangement from regular budget, 
peacekeeping and extrabudgetary resources.  

17. In its resolution 65/259, the General Assembly authorized the Secretary-
General to proceed with structural review project 3 (rationalizing the ICT 
organization) and decided that the $1.5 million required for the project for 2011 
would be provided from within the resources approved for the biennium 2010-2011. 
The Assembly decided to provide general temporary assistance equivalent to seven 
P-4 positions for structural review project 4 (strengthening the Office of Information 
and Communications Technology), of which five were to be funded from within 
existing resources for 2010-2011. The Assembly also decided not to approve any 
funding related to the other two projects and requested the Secretary-General to 
review the proposals on the implementation of the ICT strategy contained in his 
report (A/65/491) and submit new and/or revised proposals in the context of the 
proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013.  

18. In his subsequent report on enterprise ICT initiatives (A/66/94), the Secretary-
General presented four revised cross-cutting, Organization-wide initiatives at a total 
cost of $42.8 million for the biennium 2012-2013, as follows: (a) improve enterprise 
ICT management, integrating earlier proposals for project 3 (rationalizing the ICT 
organization) and project 4 (strengthening the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology); (b) leverage knowledge through ICT, formerly referred 



 A/67/770
 

7 13-24662 
 

to as “enterprise content management” (resolution 64/243, para. 125); (c) enhance 
ICT service delivery, revising the Secretary-General’s previous proposal for project 1 
(globalizing service desks) and integrating ongoing implementation of the customer 
relationship management system (see A/65/491); (d) create a resilient ICT 
infrastructure, presenting a revised proposal for project 2 (streamlining data centres) 
(ibid.), consolidating the requirements for a unified disaster recovery and business 
continuity plan, including a permanent solution for Headquarters, in response to 
General Assembly resolutions 63/262, 63/269 and 65/259.  

19. The General Assembly, in its resolution 66/246, requested the Secretary-General 
to implement initiative 1 (improve enterprise information and communications 
technology management) and initiative 4 (create a resilient information and 
communications technology infrastructure). It decided not to approve additional 
funding for the implementation of those initiatives and did not approve the 
remaining two initiatives. The Assembly further requested the Secretary-General to 
submit any future funding proposals for major ICT projects for consideration by the 
Assembly only after the full implementation of Umoja. As indicated in paragraph 3 
above, in the same resolution the Assembly also took action on the management 
arrangements of the Office of Information and Communications Technology.  
 
 

 III. Context 
 
 

20. The United Nations is actively engaged in the implementation of or envisages 
launching a number of major business transformation and change management 
initiatives, including the enterprise resource planning system, the International 
Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS), a revised service delivery model and 
the global field support strategy, as well as ongoing human resources management 
reforms. As highlighted by the Board, information and communications 
technologies are an integral part of these business transformation initiatives, which 
use technology to enable and deliver change. The Advisory Committee continues 
to believe that the provision of appropriate ICT support as well as consistent, 
comprehensive and reliable corporate information to support decision-making 
is critical for the successful implementation of such initiatives.  
 
 

 IV. General comments 
 
 

21. The Board’s assessment of the handling of ICT affairs across the Secretariat 
(see A/67/651) covers a broad range of elements, including the ICT strategy of the 
United Nations; the alignment of the strategy with the Organization’s business model 
and business transformation needs; the ICT governance framework; the role of the 
Chief Information Technology Officer; the overall costs of the ICT function; the 
staffing profile of the Office of Information and Communications Technology and 
the skills base of people involved in ICT; and service management and technology, 
including the management of ICT applications and information security issues.  

22. The Board identified three key limitations of the current ICT strategy, including: 
(a) insufficient emphasis on the enterprise resource planning system, which is the 
single largest ICT-enabled business transformation project of the United Nations; 
(b) insufficient prioritization of information security issues; and (c) insufficient 



A/67/770  
 

13-24662 8 
 

recognition of peacekeeping activities, which account for some 75 per cent of 
overall ICT expenditure (A/67/651, paras. 18 and 19).  

23. The overall conclusion of the Board is that the Organization was unsuccessful 
in enforcing a more centralized ICT implementation and delivery strategy.  

24. The Board attributes this to a variety of factors, including: (a) the failure to 
establish a common vision and commitment across the Organization; (b) the lack of 
senior management support to drive more centralized decision-making and 
corporate behaviour from the centre; (c) the fact that the governance structures did 
not function effectively; (d) the fact that the role and authority of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology and its Chief were not clearly 
defined, communicated or understood within the Secretariat; and (e) the inherent 
difficulty in achieving business transformation solely through the work of a central 
ICT function that lacks the authority to enforce change in an organization such as 
the United Nations, which operates more as a network of organizations rather than 
as a single, global and homogenous entity.  

25. More broadly, the Board notes that the difficulties in implementing the ICT 
strategy mirrored those experienced by the United Nations in delivering major 
business transformation projects such as Umoja. These include the absence of an 
overall coherent view, framework or planned agenda for business transformation; 
the lack of clear and effective governance and accountability arrangements for such 
major programmes; and weaknesses in control owing to the absence of regular 
financial management information to inform decision-making.  

26. The Board issued a series of recommendations for addressing the weaknesses 
identified in the aforementioned areas (see para. 21 above), which have all been 
accepted by the Secretariat. The Board notes both the Administration’s open 
acknowledgement of the issues raised in the report and its commitment to act upon 
them decisively to improve the current ICT situation in the Secretariat, including the 
development of a new ICT strategy that is consistent with both United Nations 
objectives and realistic ambitions for transformation. The Committee notes that the 
Secretariat proposes to submit a new ICT strategy for consideration by the General 
Assembly at its sixty-eighth session, in 2013 (A/67/651, summary).  

27. Details on the Board’s recommendations and the actions envisaged by the 
Secretariat for their implementation are reflected in the report of the Board, in 
particular as regards the following:  

 (a) The update and reformulation of the ICT strategy (ibid., paras. 21 and 22);  

 (b) The comprehensive tracking of ICT expenditures and the funding of ICT 
activities (ibid., paras. 29-33);  

 (c) The United Nations operating and service delivery models (ibid., 
paras. 39-43);  

 (d) Clarification of the respective roles of chief information officer and chief 
technology officer, as well as of the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology (ibid., paras. 44-56);  

 (e) The ICT governance framework (ibid., paras. 60-70);  



 A/67/770
 

9 13-24662 
 

 (f) The staffing of the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology and upgrading the skills of United Nations ICT personnel (ibid., 
paras. 71-78);  

 (g) ICT service management (ibid., paras. 79-85);  

 (h) Software applications management strategy (ibid., paras. 86-92);  

 (i) Information security (ibid., paras. 93-101).  

28. The Advisory Committee commends the Board for the continued high 
quality of its work and is satisfied by the scope and depth of its audit. It 
welcomes the relevant and constructive recommendations issued by the Board for 
addressing the serious weaknesses identified in its audit. The Committee appreciates 
in particular the Board’s insights into the root causes and systemic weaknesses 
hindering progress in the implementation of major business transformation 
projects and management reform initiatives at the United Nations. It notes, for 
instance, the Board’s observations on the complex and decentralized nature of the 
United Nations and the need to gain a better understanding of Organization-wide 
activities that require strong central control and those which merit greater 
operational freedom. The Board’s audit also provides some clarification as to the 
interdependencies between ICT reform and other ongoing business transformation 
projects. In the view of the Committee, the independent assessment of the Board 
constitutes a valuable tool for the Secretariat in analysing lessons learned and 
charting a course of action for the future development of ICT at the United 
Nations. It will also facilitate the consideration by the General Assembly of 
progress in the implementation of major business transformation initiatives 
such as Umoja, as well as decision-making on ICT investments. The Committee 
considers that, in the future, the Board should be requested to conduct such 
assessments earlier in the implementation cycle of major projects and 
initiatives so as to ensure that issues are detected and reported to the Assembly 
in a more timely fashion and that remedial action can be taken promptly.  

29. The Advisory Committee is disappointed by the failure to successfully 
implement the United Nations ICT strategy approved by the General Assembly more 
than four years after its adoption, in 2008. The Committee is of the view that the 
lack of senior management commitment, ownership and accountability were key 
factors in this regard. The Board’s audit report demonstrates the Secretariat’s 
weaknesses in delivering major business transformation projects and management 
reform initiatives. The Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be 
requested to lead a serious effort to fully analyse the lessons learned from the 
problems encountered in the implementation of the ICT strategy and major 
business transformation initiatives audited by the Board, such as Umoja, 
IPSAS and the global field support strategy. The Committee stresses that senior 
managers and other relevant staff should be fully engaged in this process in an 
accountable manner and commit to bringing about the changes that are 
necessary if the United Nations is to evolve into a modern, efficient and well-
run organization. In this connection, the Committee notes the inclusion in the 
senior managers’ compacts with the Secretary-General of ICT- and Umoja-
related objectives, indicators of achievement and performance measures, 
starting in 2010. It considers that, if properly applied, the compacts could 
constitute an effective instrument of accountability for performance and 
compliance with organizational decisions and standards.  



A/67/770  
 

13-24662 10 
 

30. In view of the setbacks experienced in successfully implementing major 
business transformation projects and management reform initiatives, as well as the 
limited capacity of the Organization to absorb such change, the Advisory 
Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be requested to develop a 
pragmatic, realistic and practical course of action for implementing the 
recommendations issued by the Board. The Committee is of the view that the 
implementation of the recommendations of the Board will involve a combination 
of: (a) long-term planning to bring about the cultural, organizational and 
structural changes that are needed to address root causes and systemic issues at 
the organizational level; (b) medium- and short-term restructuring to improve 
the handling of ICT at the United Nations and to better support the ongoing 
implementation of business transformation initiatives; and (c) immediate 
actions required to address urgent issues, including on information security 
matters. The Committee considers that the Secretariat should prioritize its 
efforts and, to the extent possible, adopt a sequential approach to the 
implementation of the ICT strategy, which would clearly set out the actions to 
be taken immediately and in the short-, medium- and long-term time frames.  

31. In this regard, the Advisory Committee believes that the highest priority 
should be given to identifying and putting into place the measures that are 
required to ensure the successful implementation of all of the phases of Umoja 
and ensuring that the Office of Information and Communications Technology 
and other relevant departments, offices and units are able to support the 
enterprise resource planning system autonomously in the post-implementation 
phase. Such measures include, for example, the implementation of an 
application management strategy to deal with the decommissioning of some 
700 applications, centralized standards for desktop computers interfacing with 
the enterprise resource planning system, the consolidation of help desks for 
servicing Umoja users and the establishment of enterprise data centres for 
hosting the enterprise resource planning software. The Committee stresses the 
critical importance and priority of ensuring a successful outcome of the Umoja 
implementation project, not only to protect the significant investment already 
made by Member States, but also because Umoja is essential for improving 
overall effectiveness and efficiency in the operations of the Organization. The 
enterprise resource planning system is also a requirement, inter alia, for 
completing and sustaining the transition to IPSAS, harmonizing and 
standardizing business practices across the Organization, enhancing 
management information to support better decision-making and enabling 
business transformation and management reform initiatives, such as improved 
accountability and a more efficient service delivery model.  

32. The Advisory Committee also recommends that the Secretary-General be 
requested, when developing his proposals for the implementation of the ICT 
strategy or Umoja, to consider all options for the prioritization and 
redeployment of resources and to avoid to the extent possible submitting 
requests for additional resources. Given that Umoja will become an 
Organization-wide resource that will benefit every department and office of the 
Secretariat, the Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be 
requested to make every effort to secure resources from within existing 
resources in all departments and offices. In this connection, the Committee 
recalls paragraph 106 of General Assembly resolution 66/246, in which the 



 A/67/770
 

11 13-24662 
 

Secretary-General was requested to submit any future funding proposals for 
major ICT projects only after the full implementation of Umoja. Any proposals 
for additional resources for the implementation of the ICT strategy should be 
accompanied by a cost-benefit analysis. The Committee further recommends 
that the Secretary-General be requested to reflect the prioritization of Umoja-
related activities in the proposed programme budget for 2014-2015.  

33. The Advisory Committee has been informed that the Chief Information 
Technology Officer position has been vacant since July 2012 and is under 
recruitment. The Committee considers that the functions of the Chief 
Information Technology Officer are crucial in ensuring the effective direction, 
planning and management of ICT activities, particularly at a time when major 
changes are occurring and important decisions on the direction of the ICT 
function have to be taken. It therefore recommends that the Secretary-General 
be requested to fill the position without further delay.  

34. Despite the serious issues highlighted in the report, the Board recognizes that 
the Administration has demonstrated important achievements at an operational level 
and it notes the consistently positive feedback given by business users regarding the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology and ICT staff in other 
offices in the discharge of their operational functions and their commitment to 
quality service.  

35. The Advisory Committee stresses the need to protect the investments 
made thus far in the implementation of the ICT strategy in such areas as the 
customer relationship management system, enterprise content management, 
portfolio management and enterprise identity management. The Committee 
recommends that the Secretary-General be requested, when reformulating the 
ICT strategy, to explore how the implementation of these systems will be 
integrated into the strategy.  

36. In the paragraphs that follow, the Advisory Committee comments on some of 
the specific issues raised in the Board’s report.  
 
 

 V. Observations and comments on specific aspects of the 
handling of information and communications technology 
affairs in the Secretariat  
 
 

 A. United Nations operating and service delivery models  
 
 

37. The Board of Auditors recommends that the Administration should recognize 
the changes that need to be made in responsibilities and the operating model of the 
Secretariat in order to deliver any new ICT strategy, and accept that senior 
management as a whole is responsible for the delivery of Organization-wide changes 
to support the Chief Information Technology Officer (A/67/651, summary). The 
Secretariat indicates that a plan to review the current operating model and identify 
opportunities to realize further benefits through changes to the service delivery model 
is under way. Under the plan, process owners will have the ultimate responsibility 
for identifying and implementing opportunities to improve the service delivery 
model across the Secretariat. A report on global service delivery models is to be 
submitted to the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session (ibid., paras. 42 and 43).  



A/67/770  
 

13-24662 12 
 

38. The Advisory Committee recalls that, in its first annual progress report on the 
implementation of the enterprise resource planning system, the Board of Auditors 
indicated that the redesign of the service delivery model should have been one of the 
project’s priorities and that a Secretariat-wide approach to common service delivery 
could facilitate the transition to the new enterprise resource planning system and 
also generate considerable efficiencies in the long term (see A/67/164).  

39. The Advisory Committee recommends that, in developing his report on 
global service delivery models, the Secretary-General be requested to bear in 
mind the opportunities offered by the enterprise resource planning system for 
increasing productivity and cost-effectiveness in service delivery. Attention 
should also be paid to ensuring that the proposed models are compatible with 
the design of the Umoja solution, and that their adoption would not result in 
cost escalation or further delays in the implementation of Umoja. The 
Committee reiterates that any changes to the current service delivery model 
must be approved by the General Assembly.  
 
 

 B. Information and communications technology strategy  
 
 

40. As noted above, the Board has identified three key limitations in the current 
ICT strategy. It also states that the ICT strategy was delivered only partially and did 
not achieve its three main goals because it did not provide a clear direction or 
describe how ICT changes were essential to business needs or to the core objectives 
of the United Nations or reflect the importance of the strategy for the implementation 
of Umoja. Nor was it aligned with United Nations culture and practice, funded 
appropriately or communicated effectively. It recommends that the Administration 
develop a new ICT strategy that is consistent with United Nations objectives and 
presents realistic ambitions for transformation (see paras. 22-27 above).  

41. The Advisory Committee considers that the formulation of a new ICT strategy 
that addresses the multiple, complex issues raised in the Board’s report represents a 
major endeavour, which requires the leadership and input of the Chief Information 
Technology Officer. It emphasizes that the strategy should take into account all the 
recommendations of the Board, as well as the comments contained in the present 
report. In the paragraphs below, the Committee comments on some of the key issues 
to be considered in formulating a revised ICT strategy.  

42. The Advisory Committee agrees with the Board that the ICT strategy should 
be consistent with United Nations objectives and present realistic ambitions for 
transformation. The Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be 
requested to ensure that any proposals he submits for an updated or a revised 
ICT strategy are closely aligned with the real needs of the Organization, in 
particular those arising from ongoing or upcoming business transformation 
initiatives, including Umoja, IPSAS and the global field support strategy.  
 

  Centralization/decentralization  
 

43. The Board states that both the ICT strategy and Umoja were designed to 
enable a new, globally consistent operating model, but that the autonomous nature 
of Secretariat entities and the existing business model were not sufficiently taken 
into account in preparing for such a centralized ICT-enabled transformation 



 A/67/770
 

13 13-24662 
 

(A/67/651, summary). It stresses that the revised ICT strategy should be more 
realistic and take into account the highly decentralized nature of the Organization.  

44. The Advisory Committee notes that a tension between centralization and 
decentralization exists in all operating models. The Organization needs to come to 
an agreement on how to adapt its current operating model to new requirements, and 
also achieve an appropriate balance between those ICT activities that should be 
centralized and those that should remain delegated to the local and regional levels. 
As indicated by the Board, this will involve identifying precisely the activities that 
require tighter control and should be managed centrally and those that can be 
delegated to local ICT units (see A/67/651, para. 58). Figure III of the report of the 
Board, provides an illustration of how this concept might work in the context of the 
United Nations, using enterprise resource planning and information security as 
examples of Organization-wide initiatives requiring tight central control. In this 
connection, the Committee was informed by the Secretariat that a revised 
governance structure was being envisaged, under which some decisions would be 
taken centrally with the aim of achieving greater harmonization, while others would 
be delegated to the local level. The revised arrangements would require promulgation 
of a Secretary-General’s bulletin to define the roles and responsibilities of the Office 
of Information and Communications Technology in this regard. The Committee 
underscores the importance of the role of the Management Committee in facilitating 
such an agreement and the requirement for senior managers to commit to applying 
any Organization-wide decisions (see para. 29 above).  

45. The Advisory Committee stresses that, regardless of the approach adopted, 
there is a need to address comprehensively the question of the excessive 
fragmentation of ICT capacities across the Secretariat revealed through the 
structural review. That fragmentation results in the inefficient use of resources and 
ineffective ICT service delivery (see para. 14 above). The Advisory Committee has 
frequently stressed that the Organization would benefit greatly from more effective 
leadership in the area of ICT at the United Nations and a more centralized approach 
to managing ICT initiatives and operations Organization-wide. Existing 
arrangements regarding ICT activities do not provide a coherent strategy and make 
it difficult to identify all ICT assets, develop and enforce standard methodologies 
and implement Organization-wide systems. This has led to the proliferation of 
incompatible and duplicative ICT systems (see para. 6 above).  

46. Another major limitation highlighted by the Board, which needs to be 
addressed when formulating a new ICT strategy, is the question of the inclusion of 
peacekeeping ICT capacities, which represent 75 per cent of ICT resources (see 
para. 22 above). During the Advisory Committee’s exchange of views with the Audit 
Operations Committee, it acknowledged that the size of the Information and 
Communications Technology Division of the Department of Field Support relative 
to that of the Office of Information and Communications Technology did indeed 
pose some challenges. The Audit Operations Committee was of the view that the 
United Nations needed to consider whether the Information and Communications 
Technology Division should operate as a separate business unit or whether it should 
follow the strategic lead of the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology. A small strategic centre could command authority over a larger 
operational unit, if, among other things, the United Nations had a clear 
understanding of its operating model, clearly defined responsibilities and 
accountabilities, and appropriate management capability and commitment. The 



A/67/770  
 

13-24662 14 
 

Audit Operations Committee further indicated that, regardless of the arrangement, it 
was of the view that any ICT strategy for the United Nations that did not encompass 
peacekeeping operations would lack credibility. The Advisory Committee 
recommends that the Secretary-General be requested to thoroughly explore this 
question in the context of the formulation of a new ICT strategy.  
 

  Alignment of the information and communications technology strategy with 
major business transformation projects and prioritization of Umoja 
 

47. The Board is of the view that any major ICT-enabled business change should 
be a significant element of an ICT strategy. It considers that one of the key 
limitations of the United Nations ICT strategy was that it did not reflect the 
importance of ICT reform for the implementation of Umoja or establish a clear and 
shared vision of how ICT innovation could support business needs and the 
achievement of United Nations core objectives. The Board recommends that the 
Administration develop a new ICT strategy, including a United Nations-wide 
information strategy and an enterprise architecture framework that describes how 
information and technology will support and provide benefits for the Organization. 
In its response, the Secretariat accepted the need to update and reformulate its ICT 
strategy and to align the new strategy with the implementation of Umoja and with a 
broader business support strategy that defines the service delivery model of the 
Organization (ibid., paras. 20 and 21). 

48. The Advisory Committee shares the Board’s concerns in this regard. In its 
reports on the implementation of Umoja (see A/63/487, A/64/7/Add.9, A/65/576, 
A/66/7/Add.1 and A/67/565), it has consistently stressed the need for increased 
collaboration between the Office of Information Communications Technology, the 
enterprise resource planning project team and the Information and Communications 
Technology Division of the Department of Field Support in areas such as: (a) the 
establishment of the technical infrastructure of the enterprise resource planning 
system; (b) the alignment of technical standards of the enterprise resource planning 
project with those of the Office of Information and Communications Technology; 
(c) the development of interfaces between legacy systems and the enterprise 
resource planning system; (d) the cleansing, conversion and migration of data; 
(e) the establishment of a comprehensive inventory and classification of existing 
systems, in particular those that are to be interfaced to or replaced by Umoja; and 
(f) the establishment of plans for the timely decommissioning of existing systems to 
be replaced by Umoja. The Committee has also emphasized the need to involve the 
personnel responsible for the development/maintenance of existing systems, who 
possess critical information about data sources and structures, interfaces and 
supporting infrastructure, as well as to avoid any duplication of effort. 

49. The Advisory Committee is not convinced that, at this stage, sufficient 
collaboration exists among the enterprise resource planning project team, the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology and other ICT units. 

50. The Advisory Committee notes that the implementation of Umoja will 
necessarily entail some standardization and consolidation of ICT capacities, in 
particular with respect to software applications, data centres, help desks, servers and 
personal computers. For instance, the Secretary-General expects that some 700 of 
the approximately 1,994 existing software applications will be replaced by Umoja 
and eventually decommissioned (see paras. 52-55 below). Given that the enterprise 



 A/67/770
 

15 13-24662 
 

resource planning software is to be hosted centrally at the enterprise data centres, it 
is also likely that some of the 211 existing data centres/server rooms will become 
redundant and that the help desks servicing the applications to be decommissioned 
will be closed. Furthermore, server and desktop standards will need to be aligned to 
the requirements of the enterprise resource planning system (see paras. 56 and 57 
below). The Committee recalls that, in his first progress report on the 
implementation of Umoja, the Secretary-General indicated that the implementation 
of Umoja would result in productivity and efficiency gains that would have an 
impact on staffing requirements and require alignment of skills to the new 
technologies and methods of work (see A/64/380). The Committee stresses the 
need, given the scale and scope of the implementation of Umoja at the United 
Nations, to plan for the orderly consolidation of any ICT capacities that may 
occur as a result of the implementation of the system. The Committee also 
believes that the Umoja project team should focus its efforts on the 
implementation of the project and business transformation requirements, and 
that the Office of Information and Communications Technology, the 
Information and Communications Technology Division and other relevant units 
should provide the necessary support to address the above-mentioned issues.  

51. The Advisory Committee considers that the implementation of Umoja 
provides a unique opportunity to test and implement some key aspects of the 
ICT strategy in a pilot environment. The lessons learned during the pilot could 
provide valuable insights and facilitate development of an ICT strategy that is 
well adapted to addressing the complexity, requirements and organizational 
specificities of the United Nations. Accordingly, the Committee recommends 
that the Secretary-General be requested to carry out in-depth analyses of the 
ICT activities required to support the deployment of Umoja and to establish a 
plan for implementation of those activities under the leadership of the Chief 
Information Technology Officer and the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology. The Secretary-General should also analyse the 
interdependencies of the ICT strategy, Umoja and any approved operating 
models/service delivery models. The Committee recommends that the 
Secretary-General be requested to report on the outcome of the above studies 
in his report on the ICT strategy.  
 
 

 C. Application management strategy  
 
 

52. The Board recommends that the Administration develop an application 
management strategy to minimize security risks and reduce costs while also 
addressing enterprise-wide applications and any necessary data migration 
(A/67/651, para. 92). It notes that the Administration has no overall software 
application strategy and that there is no central control, funding or planning for 
United Nations software applications. The Board notes that the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology is responsible for managing eight 
applications with a wide reach, known as enterprise applications, and some 30 other 
applications based on Lotus Notes. The Board further notes that, of the 1,994 
applications in use in the Secretariat, most have been developed locally and perform 
duplicate functions, despite the Administration’s efforts to control ICT expenditure 
above certain limits and the introduction of a review and approval process for new 
ICT products (ibid., paras. 86 and 88).  



A/67/770  
 

13-24662 16 
 

53. The Board indicates that the lack of an overall strategy for applications has 
resulted in uncertainty regarding investments and priorities for ICT. It also exposes 
the Organization to security risks and increases the risk of duplicate expenditures 
and of exploitation by software vendors (ibid., para. 89). With regard to the 600 to 
700 software applications expected to be decommissioned following the 
implementation of Umoja, in its first annual progress report on the implementation 
of the United Nations enterprise resource planning system (A/67/164), the Board 
noted that there was a lack of planning with regard to how the Organization will 
migrate from legacy systems, decommission them or use them to support the 
transition to Umoja. In its current report, the Board notes that even after the 
implementation of Umoja, more than 1,300 software applications will still be in use 
across the Secretariat, which makes integration and information-sharing difficult. 
The Board indicates that some applications could be adapted for enterprise-wide 
use, while many others could be consolidated (ibid., paras. 90 and 91). The 
Advisory Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be requested to 
deal with this issue as a matter of priority.  

54. The Advisory Committee shares the Board’s concerns with regard to the lack 
of an application management strategy, as well as to the lack of planning for the 
migration from legacy systems and decommissioning of systems related to the 
implementation of Umoja. As indicated above, in the context of its consideration of 
the Secretary-General’s annual progress reports on the implementation of Umoja, the 
Committee has repeatedly stressed the need to establish, as a first step in planning 
the decommissioning of systems, a comprehensive inventory of all the systems 
providing core functions for the management of human, financial and physical 
resources, which would also provide information on: (a) the systems to be replaced 
by Umoja, which could be decommissioned; (b) the systems to be maintained, 
which would be interfaced to Umoja; and (c) the systems to be maintained, for 
which no interface was required (see A/65/576). It has also emphasized the need to 
classify the systems in terms of their importance, taking into account elements such 
as functionality, resource requirements, scale and scope. The Committee is of the 
view that not much progress has been made to date in this regard.  

55. The Advisory Committee considers that there is an urgent need to develop 
and implement an Organization-wide application management policy, applicable 
to all departments and offices at Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters, 
regional commissions and field duty stations, in order to deal with the 
consolidation of the 1,300 application programmes that will remain after the 
implementation of Umoja (see para. 53 above) and halt the piecemeal 
development/acquisition of software applications and the continued proliferation 
of stand-alone, duplicate systems. The Committee recalls that it was precisely the 
proliferation of stand-alone, incompatible and duplicative systems that led to its call 
for a coherent strategy for the development of information technology at the United 
Nations (see para. 6 above). The Committee recommends that the Secretary-
General be requested to conduct a comprehensive review of the 1,994 existing 
software applications and make proposals for reducing the number of 
applications and eliminating duplications, as well as for addressing the question 
of the decommissioning of applications discussed in the paragraphs above. It 
further recommends that the Secretary-General be requested to present the 
outcome of the review to the General Assembly in the context of his report on 



 A/67/770
 

17 13-24662 
 

the ICT strategy, with options for improved and sustainable management of 
ICT at the United Nations. The Committee intends to follow up on this matter.  
 
 

 D. Information and communications technology equipment  
 
 

56. The Board notes that individual departments are responsible for buying 
desktops with funds from their own budgets and that there is no corporate oversight 
of expenditure for such items. In addition, owing to local priorities, departments 
often choose to delay upgrading their systems and redirect ICT funds for other 
purposes, resulting in a fragmented, inconsistent desktop environment that limits the 
roll-out of Secretariat-wide applications (see A/67/651, para. 87). The Advisory 
Committee was informed that the introduction of the Umoja enterprise resource 
planning software would require a standardized desktop environment throughout the 
Secretariat.  

57. The Advisory Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be 
requested to ensure more effective and efficient use of ICT equipment, as well 
as transparent reporting on holdings of ICT equipment and assets, including 
personal computers, printers, telephones and servers.  
 
 

 E. Information and communications technology costs  
 
 

58. The Board indicates that there is limited visibility of ICT expenditure 
throughout the Secretariat because the United Nations chart of accounts and 
supporting financial system do not enable the costs of ICT activities to be routinely 
tracked. The Board states that it can provide no assurance on the figure of 
$774 million estimated in the 2010 review conducted by the Office of Information 
and Communications Technology (see para. 14 above), which does not capture 
actual expenditure and covers only proposed budgets because approved budgets do 
not contain sufficient detail to isolate relevant ICT components. In addition, each 
department and office has its own ICT budget and consolidated management 
information on ICT budgets and expenditures is not routinely prepared, which 
prevents the assessment, monitoring and prioritization of ICT funding across the 
United Nations (see A/67/651, summary and paras. 26 and 27). As indicated above, 
the Secretariat has acknowledged that it is unable to ensure that its investment in 
ICT is being used effectively and efficiently.  

59. The Board has recommended that the Administration clearly specify how the 
chart of accounts in Umoja will enable ICT expenditure to be captured and 
monitored effectively and that it consider whether any options for improving 
management information on ICT expenditure could be pursued prior to the 
implementation of Umoja. In its response, the Secretariat indicates that the new 
chart of accounts that will be put in place with the implementation of Umoja will 
allow the Administration to clearly programme and record ICT resources and 
expenditures. Furthermore, in order to enable greater consistency and transparency 
with regard to ICT funding and budgets and allow better management of costs and 
effective prioritization, the Controller has required that proposed ICT budgets set 
out (a) the cost of running day-to-day services; (b) the cost of licences and 
maintenance costs for existing systems; (c) costs related to upgrading existing 
service delivery (e.g. to improve security); and (d) new costs, including strategic 



A/67/770  
 

13-24662 18 
 

requirements. The Secretariat also intends to strengthen the role of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology to monitor ICT resources in the 
Organization by enforcing the reporting responsibilities of senior managers on ICT 
resources and projects, as reflected in their compacts with the Secretary-General 
(ibid., paras. 30, 31 and 33).  

60. The Advisory Committee welcomes the actions proposed by the Secretary-
General in response to the recommendations of the Board and recommends 
that he be requested to ensure that the required data is captured and that 
consolidated information on overall ICT budgets and expenditures is provided 
to Member States, and furthermore, that every effort is made to utilize ICT 
resources more efficiently and effectively. The Committee has, on several 
occasions, called for increased transparency in the presentation of the ICT costs and 
utilization of resources. In its first report on the proposed programme budget for the 
biennium 2012-2013, the Committee recommended that, in the future, the Secretary-
General should be requested to routinely provide in the introduction to the proposed 
programme budget a consolidated picture of the totality of the resources proposed 
for ICT, with a breakdown of the resources by budget section, distinguishing 
between different sources of funding (regular budget, peacekeeping and 
extrabudgetary resources). The Committee further recommended that future budget 
submissions include, regardless of the source of funding, a clear ICT plan for each 
budget section containing proposals for the implementation of ICT projects, together 
with information on the expected results and benefits (A/66/7, paras. 116 and 117).  
 
 

 F. Role and functions of the Chief Information Technology Officer  
 
 

61. The Board considers that the scope and remit of the Chief Information 
Technology Officer with regard to a strategic vision, business transformation and 
leadership was not clearly defined, communicated or understood within the 
Secretariat, nor was it clearly differentiated from the function of managing day-to-
day ICT operations. It indicates that the designation of the Secretariat’s most senior 
information officer as Chief Information Technology Officer (rather than as chief 
information officer) contributed to the expectation that the post would have a 
technical focus and encouraged behaviours that were consistent with an operational 
view of ICT. As a result, the Chief Information Technology Officer and management 
directed insufficient attention to: (a) transformation, change or strategic leadership 
of the ICT function, and (b) the development and enforcement of Secretariat-wide 
corporate guidance, frameworks, standards and policies (A/67/651, summary). The 
Board discusses the respective functions of chief information officer and chief 
technology officer in paragraphs 44 to 51 of its report.  

62. The Board recommends that the Administration emphasize the strategic 
priorities of the Chief Information Technology Officer by redefining the functions of 
the post and amending the title, evaluate whether there is a need to appoint a chief 
technology officer or designate an existing post with the specific function of 
assisting the chief information officer in operational matters, and clearly define and 
communicate the different roles of those two officers across the Secretariat, in 
particular the scope and remit of the chief information officer with regard to strategy 
and business transformation (ibid., para. 50). The Advisory Committee concurs 
with the Board on the need to distinguish between the responsibilities related to 
the achievement of strategic priorities and those for technology and operational 



 A/67/770
 

19 13-24662 
 

issues, which are currently vested in the Chief Information Technology Officer 
position. It considers that it is up to the Secretary-General to evaluate whether 
there is a need to appoint a chief technology officer or designate an existing 
post to assist the chief information officer in operational matters. The Advisory 
Committee expects the Secretary-General to fully explain and justify any future 
proposal he may make with regard to the management arrangements for the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology.  
 
 

 G. Performance management 
 
 

63. The Board indicates that the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology operates the service desk for Headquarters and maintains basic 
information on the performance of this service, including, for instance, the number 
of service requests received, fulfilled and cancelled. It further notes that business 
users consistently gave positive feedback on the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology (see A/67/651, para. 83 and para. 34 above). The 
Advisory Committee welcomes this positive indicator of user satisfaction with 
the performance of the Office of Information and Communications Technology. 
It considers nevertheless that, in addition to the help desk statistics, there is a need 
for more comprehensive performance information on the whole range of services 
provided by the Office, including information on performance targets and 
benchmarks against which progress could be measured, baseline information on 
activity levels, costs and quality of services, as well as assessment of the progress 
made towards the achievement of objectives. The Committee recommends that 
the Secretary-General be requested to include, in any reformulated ICT 
strategy, a comprehensive performance management framework based on well-
defined concepts and effective mechanisms and tools for monitoring, evaluating 
and measuring the results and impact of the activities implemented.  
 
 

 H. Information and communications technology security  
 
 

64. The Board is very concerned that the United Nations does not have an 
adequately secure information environment, noting that there is no overall approved 
information security policy, nor is there harmonization of the security environments 
across the Secretariat. The Advisory Committee notes with concern the delays 
experienced in adopting a Secretariat-wide information security charter and related 
policies, as well as the Board’s statement that, even should the security charter be 
issued by the Office of Information and Communications Technology, it is unclear 
what status the document would have or how compliance would be monitored or 
enforced. The Board also indicates that, while there is a security manager in the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology, there is no authoritative 
mechanism or mandate to improve security across the Secretariat. Furthermore, in 
the absence of an overall information security policy, some departments, including 
the Department of Field Support, have developed their own policies and security 
approaches (ibid., paras. 95, 98 and 99).  

65. As indicated in the report of the Board, its detailed findings and 
recommendations in relation to ICT security are set out in a separate memorandum 
addressed to the Chair of the Advisory Committee (see para. 1 above). In addition to 
the comments included in the Board’s report, the Secretariat has submitted an 



A/67/770  
 

13-24662 20 
 

addendum to the Board’s report (A/67/651/Add.1), which provides an additional 
update on the actions that are being taken by the Administration to strengthen, as a 
matter of urgency, information and system security across the Secretariat.  

66. In the addendum, the Secretary-General indicates that an action plan is being 
developed. The plan foresees the implementation of short-term measures to address 
the most urgent shortcomings, as well as the definition of a sustainable medium- and 
long-term strategy for information security. The Advisory Committee notes that the 
action plan comprises a series of actions regarding preventive controls; improved 
incident detection and response capabilities; and governance, risk and compliance. 
The Secretary-General states that implementation of the action plan has 
commenced: the first stage is expected to be completed in 2013 and full 
implementation will continue in 2014. With regard to the actions to be taken in the 
area of governance, risk and compliance, the Secretary-General indicates that an 
information security charter and associated policy documents will be presented to 
the Management Committee for adoption and promulgation, and the policies 
established therein will be enforced throughout the Secretariat. 

67. Upon enquiry as to the resource implications of the action plan, the Advisory 
Committee was informed that some of the measures envisaged would require new 
investments for hardware, software and/or services at the time of the initial 
implementation, while others would also require additional resources for ongoing 
operations. However, the additional measures envisaged to be implemented in the 
immediate future were limited to the ICT environment at Headquarters, and any 
related resource requirements would be covered by reprioritizing existing resources 
within the Office of Information and Communications Technology. The Secretary-
General further indicated that he intended to include, in his upcoming report on the 
new ICT strategy, detailed resource requirements for a sustained Secretariat-wide 
implementation of his action plan beyond 2013. The Committee recommends that 
the Secretary-General be requested, when developing his proposals for the 
implementation of the information security action plan, to make every effort to 
prioritize and redeploy resources and to avoid, to the extent possible, 
submitting requests for additional resources (see para. 32 above).  

68. The Advisory Committee shares the Board’s concerns with regard to the 
information security situation. It recommends that the Secretary-General be 
requested to proceed with the implementation of his action plan as a matter of 
priority, and ensure adoption, without further delay, of the information 
security charter and associated policy documents in a manner that assures 
accountability at all levels of the Organization. The Secretary-General should 
also take prompt remedial action to address any hindrances that may arise to 
the effective implementation of the action plan or the promulgation and 
enforcement of information security policies throughout the Secretariat.  

69. The Advisory Committee recommends that the Secretary-General be 
requested to provide, in the context of the proposed programme budget for the 
biennium 2014-2015, an update on the status of implementation of the actions 
taken to address information security issues. The Committee further requests 
the Board of Auditors to follow up on the implementation of its 
recommendations in this regard. 
 
 



 A/67/770
 

21 13-24662 
 

 VI. Conclusion 
 
 

70. In the paragraphs above, the Advisory Committee has expressed it views 
and made a number of recommendations with regard to the development of 
proposals for a new ICT strategy for the United Nations. The Committee has 
highlighted the need to absorb all the lessons learned from recent experience 
and to adopt a pragmatic, practical and realistic approach to addressing the 
unique requirements of the United Nations and designing solutions that are well 
suited to its complex and decentralized organizational structures. Taking into 
account the large number of major business transformation/management 
reform initiatives currently under way, the Committee has also emphasized the 
need to prioritize efforts, and, if necessary, to adopt a sequential approach to 
the implementation of the ICT strategy should it not be feasible to implement 
all aspects of the strategy simultaneously.  

71. The Advisory Committee strongly believes that it is in the best interest of 
the Organization to concentrate efforts and available resources, to the extent 
possible, towards the implementation of Umoja in order to ensure a successful 
outcome of this important project. The Committee has suggested an alternative 
approach, in phases, to the formulation of a new ICT strategy, under which, in 
the first phase, the ICT strategy would be reformulated to incorporate the 
aspects necessary to support the implementation of Umoja and to develop, in a 
subsequent phase, the full range of components of an ICT strategy for the 
United Nations. The Committee believes that such an approach would allow the 
Organization to address the urgent requirements of Umoja and also provide an 
opportunity to test and implement some key aspects of the ICT strategy in a 
pilot environment. It would also allow the United Nations to absorb more 
gradually the significant cultural and organizational changes that will 
undoubtedly result from the implementation of a comprehensive ICT strategy 
and the modernization and consolidation of ICT capacities across the 
Secretariat. 

72. The Advisory Committee recognizes, however, that it is the prerogative of 
the Secretary-General to propose a suitable approach for the formulation of a 
new ICT strategy. It is of the view that any proposal submitted for 
consideration by the General Assembly should be based on a thorough analysis 
of the requirements of the United Nations, including the departments and 
offices at Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters, regional commissions 
and field duty stations. Any new strategy should include a detailed, workable 
implementation plan and a fully justified cost-benefit analysis. The proposal 
should also include details on ICT governance and management arrangements, 
including information on lines of responsibility and accountability, as well as on 
the senior responsible owner. The Committee considers it essential to designate 
a single individual, recognized as the senior responsible owner who will assume 
full accountability for the development and implementation of the ICT strategy. 
The Committee considers it equally important that the senior responsible 
owner be granted the requisite authority to implement and enforce the ICT 
strategy as approved by the General Assembly. 

 


