
 United Nations  A/C.5/67/L.23

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 
28 March 2013 
 
Original: English 

 

13-27531 (E)    030413     
*1327531*   

Sixty-seventh session  
Fifth Committee  
Agenda item 130  
Programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013  

 
 
 

  Draft resolution submitted by the Chair of the Committee following 
informal consultations  
 
 

  Special subjects relating to the programme budget for the 
biennium 2012-2013  
 
 

 The General Assembly,  
 

  I 
  Information and communications technology: report of the Board of Auditors 

on the handling of information and communications technology affairs in the 
United Nations Secretariat  
 

 Recalling section II of its resolution 60/283 of 7 July 2006, its resolutions 
62/250 of 20 June 2008, 63/262 of 24 December 2008, 63/269 of 7 April 2009, 
64/243 of 24 December 2009, section II of its resolution 65/259 of 24 December 
2010 and its resolution 66/246 of 24 December 2011,  

 Having considered the report of the Board of Auditors on the handling of 
information and communications technology affairs in the Secretariat,1 the report of 
the Secretary-General on the implementation of the recommendations of the Board 
contained in its report,2 as well as the related report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions,3  

 Having also considered the report of the Joint Inspection Unit on information 
and communications technology governance in United Nations system organizations,4 
as well as the note by the Secretary-General transmitting his comments and those of 
the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for Coordination thereon,5  

__________________ 

 1 A/67/651.  
 2 A/67/651/Add.1.  
 3 A/67/770.  
 4 A/67/119.  
 5 A/67/119/Add.1.  



A/C.5/67/L.23  
 

13-27531 2 
 

 Stressing the need to harness the potential of information and communications 
technology to support the work of the United Nations in the areas of peace and 
security, development, human rights and international law,  

 1. Takes note of the report of the Board of Auditors on the handling of 
information and communications technology affairs in the Secretariat1 and the 
report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the recommendations of 
the Board contained in its report;2  

 2. Endorses the conclusions and recommendations contained in the report 
of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions;3  

 3. Approves the conclusions and recommendations of the Board of Auditors 
contained in its report;  

 4. Recalls paragraph 28 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions, commends the Board of Auditors for the 
continued high quality of its work, and welcomes the recommendations issued by 
the Board to address the root causes and systemic weaknesses hindering progress in 
the implementation of major business transformation projects and management 
reform in the Organization;  

 5. Also recalls paragraph 27 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions, and requests the Secretary-General to 
implement the recommendations of the Board as a matter of priority;  

 6. Underlines the importance of information and communications 
technology in meeting the growing demands of the Organization as it becomes 
increasingly reliant on its information and communications technology infrastructure;  

 7. Also underlines the importance of information and communications 
technology in strengthening oversight and accountability and in increasing the 
availability of accurate and timely information to support decision-making;  

 8. Acknowledges that the lack of effective governance and leadership in the 
area of information and communications technology has resulted in a high level of 
duplication and fragmentation of the information and communications technology 
functions in the Secretariat;  

 9. Recalls paragraph 69 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions, and stresses the need for improved 
oversight for the more timely detection of serious issues in the implementation of 
major projects and initiatives such as information and communications technology;  

 10. Notes that the post of Chief Information Technology Officer has been 
vacant since 2012, and requests the Secretary-General to accelerate the filling of the 
position without further delay in order to ensure the effective direction, planning 
and management of information and communications technology activities;  

 11. Recalls paragraphs 42, 70 and 71 of the report of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions and its suggestion of a 
sequential approach to the formulation of a new information and communications 
technology strategy, and requests the Secretary-General to submit a progress report 
to the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session on the measures taken to address 
the priorities identified by the Board in its report, in particular with regard to the 



 A/C.5/67/L.23
 

3 13-27531 
 

implementation of the enterprise resource planning project, Umoja, and information 
technology security;  

 12. Requests the Secretary-General to propose a revised information and 
communications technology strategy, including lessons learned, by no later than the 
sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly, bearing in mind that the purpose of 
information and communications technology is to support the work of the 
Organization;  

 13. Stresses that the revised information and communications technology 
strategy should be based on a thorough analysis of the business environment and its 
requirements and be aligned with the service delivery model of the Organization, 
including ongoing and upcoming business transformation initiatives;  

 14. Requests the Secretary-General to include, in the revised information and 
communications technology strategy, a comprehensive performance management 
framework based on well-defined concepts and effective mechanisms and tools for 
monitoring, evaluating and measuring the results and impact of the activities 
implemented, the lessons learned from the problems encountered in the 
implementation of the current information and communications technology strategy 
and a detailed, workable implementation plan, as well as a fully justified cost-
benefit analysis;  

 15. Regrets the recent insufficient collaboration among the Umoja project 
team, the Office of Information and Communications Technology and other United 
Nations Secretariat information and communications technology units;  

 16. Requests the Secretary-General to identify and put into place the 
measures required to ensure the successful implementation of all of the phases of 
Umoja and to ensure that the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology and other relevant departments, offices and units are able to support the 
enterprise resource planning system autonomously in the post-implementation phase 
in order to increase productivity and cost-effectiveness in service delivery;  

 17. Also requests the Secretary-General to proceed with the implementation 
of his action plan to strengthen information security as a matter of priority, to ensure 
the adoption, without further delay, of the information security policy directive and 
associated policy documents in a manner that assures accountability at all levels of 
the Organization and to take prompt remedial action to address any hindrances that 
may arise to the effective implementation of the action plan or the promulgation and 
enforcement of information security policies throughout the Secretariat;  

 18. Invites the Secretary-General to provide, in the context of the proposed 
programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015, an update on the status of 
implementation of the actions taken to address information security issues, 
including measures taken to guard against any threats of cyber attack;  

 19. Recalls paragraphs 53 and 55 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions, and requests the Secretary-General to 
conduct a comprehensive review of the existing software applications and to plan 
for the necessary migration and decommissioning of systems to enable a smooth 
transition to Umoja;  
 



A/C.5/67/L.23  
 

13-27531 4 
 

  II  
  Organizational resilience management system: emergency management framework  

 

 Recalling section II of its resolution 64/260 of 29 March 2010 and section I of 
its resolution 66/247 of 24 December 2011, as well as its decision 67/552 of 
24 December 2012,  

 Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on organizational 
resilience management, including the comprehensive emergency framework6 and 
the related report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions,7  

 Having also considered the report of the Joint Inspection Unit on business 
continuity in the United Nations system,8 as well as the note by the Secretary-
General transmitting his comments and those of the United Nations System Chief 
Executives Board for Coordination thereon,9  

 1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;6  

 2. Endorses the conclusions and recommendations contained in the report 
of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,7 subject to 
the provisions of the present resolution;  

 3. Approves the organizational resilience management system approach as 
the emergency management framework;  

 4. Recalls paragraph 23 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions, and, while noting that the Secretary-General 
is not requesting additional financial resources for the implementation of the 
organizational resilience management framework, requests him to provide a detailed 
accounting of the full cost of the initiative in the context of the next progress report;  

 5. Emphasizes the importance of the organizational resilience management 
system framework in managing operational risks to the United Nations under an 
all-hazards approach;  

 6. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly, at the 
first part of its resumed sixty-eighth session, a progress report on the implementation 
of the organizational resilience management system, including information on the 
steps taken to expand the system to include the specialized agencies, funds and 
programmes;  

 7. Also requests the Secretary-General, in the context of the report 
mentioned in paragraph 6 above, to present comprehensive information on the work 
of the after-action review on storm Sandy, including the action taken to address the 
shortcomings identified;  

 8. Further requests the Secretary-General to ensure that all relevant rules, 
regulations and resolutions are adhered to in the implementation of all aspects of the 
organizational resilience management framework;  

__________________ 

 6 A/67/266.  
 7 A/67/608.  
 8 A/67/83.  
 9 A/67/83/Add.1.  



 A/C.5/67/L.23
 

5 13-27531 
 

  III 
  Feasibility study on the United Nations Headquarters accommodation needs 

2014-2034 
 

 Recalling its resolution 60/282 of 30 June 2006 and section A of its decision 
66/556 B of 9 April 2012,  

 Having considered the reports of the Secretary-General on the feasibility study 
on the United Nations Headquarters accommodation needs 2014-2034,10 and on the 
expanded feasibility study on the United Nations Headquarters accommodation 
needs 2014-2034,11 as well as the related reports of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions,12  

 1. Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General;10, 11  

 2. Endorses the conclusions and recommendations contained in the reports 
of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,12 subject to 
the provisions of the present resolution;  

 3. Stresses the important role of the host countries in their support for 
United Nations Headquarters and offices away from Headquarters;  

 4. Underlines the historical and architectural significance of the United 
Nations complex in New York and of the original design of the Board of Design 
Consultants, without prejudice to the prerogative of the General Assembly to 
consider all options with regard to the long-term accommodation of United Nations 
Headquarters;  

 5. Notes that the information provided by the Secretary-General in the 
expanded study on United Nations Headquarters long-term accommodation needs 
2014-2034 is not precise and comprehensive enough to facilitate decision-making 
by the General Assembly and that it does not give equal treatment to all options 
considered;  

 6. Recalls paragraphs 52 and 53 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions,13 and requests the Secretary-General to 
submit to the General Assembly a new report on United Nations Headquarters long-
term accommodation needs with comprehensive information on all viable options, 
including additional options not adequately considered or developed in the report of 
the Secretary-General, ensuring that all options are treated equally, while seeking 
the most favourable terms for the Organization in all cases, as early as possible in 
the sixty-eighth session;  

 7. Stresses that the new report mentioned in paragraph 6 above shall also 
cover factors including, but not limited to, total population requirements with and 
without the staff of the participating funds and programmes and the financial 
consequences of the cost-sharing arrangements with them, the impact of the 
implementation of flexible work arrangements on the capacity of the buildings at the 
Headquarters compound, the sequencing of United Nations construction projects, 
the findings from the ongoing review of flexible workspace arrangements and 

__________________ 

 10 A/66/349.  
 11 A/67/720.  
 12 A/66/7/Add.3 and A/67/788.  
 13 A/67/788.  



A/C.5/67/L.23  
 

13-27531 6 
 

strategies in the Secretariat, the potential impact on the architectural integrity of the 
United Nations compound, an analysis of the preferable ratio of owned versus 
leased space for the Organization and possible developments in the planning for the 
future of the Organization;  

 8. Recalls paragraph 48 of the report of the Advisory Committee and 
emphasizes that the term “comprehensive information” in paragraph 6 above means 
information including, but not limited to, short- and long-term financing alternatives 
for each option, the direct and indirect costs of each option, the net present value of 
each option, along with the residual value of new construction where relevant and 
the legal and other risks associated with each option;  

 9. Notes the Secretariat initiative to commission a report on the application 
of flexible workspace strategies and working arrangements in the Organization, and 
looks forward to receiving the report of the Secretary-General at the main part of its 
sixty-eighth session;  

 10. Decides that the pursuit of negotiations by the Secretary-General with the 
intention of keeping option 3 viable shall in no way represent a commitment by the 
Organization and shall be without prejudice to any decision by the General 
Assembly, nor shall it entail legal or financial liability for the United Nations;  

 11. Requests the Secretary-General to provide information on a regular basis 
to the General Assembly on the progress of the efforts referred to in the paragraphs 
above;  

 12. Recalls paragraph 50 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions as well as section VII, paragraph 4, of 
resolution 66/247, and reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to ensure that 
major capital expenditure projects are not implemented simultaneously in order to 
prevent the need to finance them at the same time;  

 13. Also recalls paragraph 59 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions and section V, paragraph 29, of resolution 
67/246 of 24 December 2012, and reiterates its request for comprehensive information 
and options, as well as financial implications, on the renovation of the South Annex 
Building and the Dag Hammarskjöld Library Building, in the context of the eleventh 
annual report on the capital master plan, ensuring that the commemorative value of 
the Dag Hammarskjöld Library is respected;  

 14. Requests the Secretary-General to ensure effective oversight and audit 
coverage in all phases of the project, including the ongoing feasibility study;  
 

  IV 
  Revised estimates relating to section 34 of the programme budget for the biennium 

2012-2013 for remediation work in the aftermath of storm Sandy  
 

 Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on revised estimates 
relating to section 34 of the programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013 for 
remediation work in the aftermath of storm Sandy14 and the related report of the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,15  

__________________ 

 14 A/67/748. 
 15 A/67/789. 



 A/C.5/67/L.23
 

7 13-27531 
 

 1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;14 

 2. Endorses the conclusions and recommendations contained in the report 
of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,15 subject to 
provisions of the present resolution;  

 3. Acknowledges the efforts made by the Secretariat during and in the 
aftermath of storm Sandy, with a view to quickly restoring normal working 
conditions for the staff and resuming the Organization’s critical business;  

 4. Recognizes the difficulties in communication faced by Member States 
and staff during and in the aftermath of storm Sandy, and, in that regard, requests 
the Secretary-General to present, at the first part of the resumed sixty-eighth 
session, comprehensive information on the work of the after-action review of storm 
Sandy, including the actions taken to address the shortcomings identified, in order to 
reduce the vulnerability of United Nations Headquarters to future flooding events 
and other emergencies;  

 5. Affirms, as illustrated by the aftermath of storm Sandy, the importance of 
accountability and oversight in the effective functioning of the emergency 
management framework, particularly in the areas of governance, communication, 
physical infrastructure and business continuity;  

 6. Welcomes the delineation of responsibilities among the various heads of 
departments and senior managers for the implementation of prevention, mitigation 
and recovery measures;  

 7. Notes that without the timely implementation of the Secretary-General’s 
proposed remediation measures, the Organization runs the risk of significant, 
uninsurable financial exposure;  

 8. Authorizes the Secretary-General to enter into commitments in the 
biennium 2012-2013 of up to $6,063,400 under section 34, Construction, alteration, 
improvement and major maintenance, for mitigation work, encourages all efforts to 
minimize costs within this section, in the most efficient manner, and requests the 
Secretary-General to report thereon in the context of the second performance report 
on the programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013;  

 9. Recalls paragraph 8 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions, and requests the Secretary-General to 
implement the remediation and mitigation work at United Nations Headquarters in 
an immediate manner in order to avoid delays in the implementation of the capital 
master plan and enable its completion within the approved schedule;  

 10. Authorizes the Secretary-General to enter into commitments in the 
biennium 2012-2013 of up to $131,421,300 to enable remediation work, and 
requests him to report thereon in the context of the second performance report on 
the programme budget, to be submitted at the main part of the sixty-eighth session 
of the General Assembly;  

 11. Notes that the cost of the remediation work is expected to be reimbursed 
under the terms of the insurance policies held by the United Nations up to an 
estimated amount of $137,851,400;  

 12. Notes the intention of the Secretary-General to submit the vast majority 
of the insurance claims relating to storm Sandy by 31 December 2013 and, in that 



A/C.5/67/L.23  
 

13-27531 8 
 

regard, requests him to ensure the timely submission of all insurance claims in order 
to expedite reimbursement and to report on the status of reimbursement and the 
insurance claims process in the context of the second performance report on the 
programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013;  

 13. Notes that the total estimated amount of non-recoverable damages may 
amount to a maximum of $11,069,900, and requests the Secretary-General, subject 
to the outcome of the insurance recovery efforts and the Secretariat’s prioritization 
of equipment and other content of which replacement is essential, to make efforts to 
minimize expenditure by seeking efficiencies during the course of the remediation 
work, and to report on those efforts in the context of the second performance report 
on the programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013;  

 14. Recalls paragraph 14 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions and decides to authorize the Secretary-
General to use the Working Capital Fund as a cash flow bridging mechanism to 
cover payments pending the receipt of insurance settlements, and requests the 
Secretary-General to closely monitor the cash position of the Organization so as to 
ensure that other operations are not put at risk and to report thereon to the General 
Assembly on a regular basis within existing mechanisms;  

 15. Decides to establish a multi-year special account for insurance recovery 
and expenditure relating to the damage in the aftermath of storm Sandy until 
31 December 2015, with the possibility of extension beyond that date depending on 
the status of the insurance claims process;  

 16. Also recalls paragraph 9, section X, of its resolution 67/246, and requests 
the Secretary-General to include information on the cash balance of the special 
account in the forthcoming monthly information on the cash situation of the 
Organization;  

 17. Requests the Secretary-General to closely monitor the insurance market, 
including all means of risk mitigation, with a view to securing adequate coverage 
for all United Nations installations exposed to natural hazards and emergencies at a 
reasonable cost and to report thereon at the first part of its resumed sixty-eighth 
session;  
 

  V 
  Safety and security management system for the United Nations 

 

 Recalling section XIV of its resolution 65/259 of 24 December 2010, its 
resolution 66/246 of 24 December 2011, section A of its decision 66/556 B of 
9 April 2012 and its decision 67/552 of 24 December 2012,  

 Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the conclusions of 
the High-level Working Group on Programme Criticality,16 his comprehensive 
report on the United Nations Department of Safety and Security17 and his report on 
the use of private security,18 as well as the related reports of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,19  

__________________ 

 16  A/66/680.  
 17  A/67/526.  
 18  A/67/539.  
 19  A/66/720 and A/67/624.  



 A/C.5/67/L.23
 

9 13-27531 
 

 1. Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General;16, 17, 18  

 2. Endorses the conclusions and recommendations contained in the reports 
of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,19 subject to 
the provisions of the present resolution;  
 

  Safety and security  
 

 3. Reaffirms the importance of ensuring the safety and security of United 
Nations staff, operations and premises;  

 4. Welcomes the progress made in strengthening the security management 
system for the coordination of security arrangements for the Organization;  

 5. Stresses the importance of ensuring full accountability for compliance with 
safety and security policies and guidelines and of monitoring managerial performance 
throughout the United Nations system, and, in that regard, requests the Secretary-
General to continue to report thereon in the context of his relevant reports;  

 6. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to strengthen his cooperation 
with host Governments in order to ensure the safety and security of United Nations 
personnel, premises and assets;  

 7. Encourages the Secretary-General to continue efforts to ensure the 
mainstreaming of safety and security in the implementation of mandated programmes 
and activities of the United Nations system;  

 8. Recalls paragraph 9 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions,20 and requests the Secretary-General to 
provide information in that regard in the context of the proposed programme budget 
for the biennium 2016-2017;  

 9. Reiterates the principle that the United Nations Secretariat, organizations, 
funds and programmes share a common responsibility for the safety and security of 
their staff and that funding for safety and security, based on cost-sharing 
arrangements, should be clear, predictable and secure, and, in that regard, invites the 
Secretary-General, in his capacity as Chair of the United Nations System Chief 
Executives Board for Coordination, to keep under review cost-sharing arrangements 
with all participating entities;  
 

  Use of private security  
 

 10. Notes that the United Nations is called upon, as an exceptional measure, 
to use armed security services from private security companies to secure the 
premises and personnel of the Organization;  

 11. Stresses that such services should be used as a last resort to enable 
United Nations activities in high-risk environments only when a United Nations 
security risk assessment concludes that other alternatives, including protection by 
the host country, support from the Member States concerned or internal United 
Nations system resources are inadequate;  

__________________ 

 20  A/67/624. 



A/C.5/67/L.23  
 

13-27531 10 
 

 12. Also stresses the importance of ensuring that all measures are undertaken 
to avoid legal and reputational risks for the Organization in using armed security 
services of private security companies;  

 13. Acknowledges the efforts of the Secretary-General to develop a policy to 
guide the use of armed security services from private security companies, and 
requests him to consider disseminating information on that policy as widely as 
possible, in all six official languages of the United Nations, taking into account 
relevant security considerations, to ensure the proper enforcement of the policy, and 
to continue to report to the General Assembly on the use of armed security services 
from private security companies;  

 14. Recalls paragraph 7, section XIV, of its resolution 65/259 and, in that 
context, encourages the Secretary-General to continue to use armed security services 
from private security companies as an exceptional measure and a last resort;  

 15. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to take all appropriate 
measures to ensure that, when using security and protection services from private 
security companies, the selected companies operate in accordance with the national 
legislation of the host country and the Charter of the United Nations and fully abide 
by the relevant principles and rules of international human rights law, international 
humanitarian law and international criminal law;  

 16. Recalls paragraph 25 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions20 and acknowledges that the policy 
implications of the use of private security by the United Nations may raise substantive 
and legal issues that may be of interest to other Committees of the General Assembly, 
in addition to the Fifth Committee, and in that regard, requests the Secretary-General, 
in consultation with the relevant substantive bodies, to present a proposal for ensuring 
that such substantive and legal issues are duly addressed by the relevant expert or 
intergovernmental bodies, as appropriate, in the relevant reports to the General 
Assembly;  

 17. Requests the Secretary-General to provide clarification on the operational 
criteria for when the use of armed security services from private security companies 
could be appropriate for United Nations operations at Headquarters and field 
locations and to report thereon in the relevant reports to the General Assembly;  
 

  Programme criticality  
 

 18. Recalls paragraph 14 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions21 on the conclusions of the High-level 
Working Group on Programme Criticality, and requests the Secretary-General, in his 
capacity as Chair of the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for 
Coordination, to submit for consideration and approval at the sixty-ninth session, a 
report containing the final conclusions of the High-level Working Group on 
Programme Criticality;  

 19. Acknowledges the programme criticality framework as an instrument to 
assist managers in the field to take time-sensitive decisions to prioritize programme 
activities in specific locations in response to changes in local security conditions;  

__________________ 

 21  A/66/720. 



 A/C.5/67/L.23
 

11 13-27531 
 

 20. Recalls paragraph 7 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions,21 and emphasizes that the programme 
criticality framework shall not affect intergovernmental oversight and accountability 
to the legislative bodies;  

 21. Also recalls paragraph 13 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions21 and requests the Secretary-General to 
ensure coherence and consistency between the proposed programme criticality 
framework and other related initiatives of the Secretary-General and to report 
thereon in the relevant reports;  
 

  VI 
  Standards of accommodation for air travel 

 

 Recalling its resolution 42/214 of 21 December 1987, section IV, paragraph 14, 
of its resolution 53/214 of 18 December 1998, section IV of its resolution 60/255 of 
8 May 2006, section XV of its resolution 62/238 of 22 December 2007, section II of 
its resolution 63/268 of 7 April 2009 and section IV of its resolution 65/268 of 24 May 
2011, as well as its decisions 57/589 of 18 June 2003 and 66/556 B of 9 April 2012,  

 Having considered the reports of the Secretary-General on proposals for a 
more effective and efficient utilization of resources for air travel22 and on standards 
of accommodation for air travel23 and the report of the Office of Internal Oversight 
Services on the comprehensive audit of all air travel activities and related 
practices,24 as well as the related reports of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions,25  

 1. Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General;22, 23  

 2. Endorses the conclusions and recommendations contained in the reports 
of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, subject to 
the provisions of the present resolution;25  

 3. Welcomes the report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services,24 and 
encourages the Secretary-General to implement all the recommendations therein and 
to report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session;  

 4. Looks forward to the successful roll-out of Umoja in air travel business 
administration of the United Nations, and requests the Secretary-General to submit 
to the General Assembly, at the session immediately following the roll-out, a 
comprehensive report on the effects of Umoja application in travel administration, 
including updated information, trends and analysis in all areas relating to air travel 
in the United Nations;  

 5. Notes that the Secretary-General has not provided the information 
requested by the General Assembly in section IV, paragraph 13, of its resolution 
65/268, and stresses the importance of the provision of accurate, complete and 
comprehensible data as the basis for sound management and effective oversight of 
all costs relating to air travel;  

__________________ 

 22  A/66/676.  
 23  A/67/356.  
 24  A/67/695.  
 25  A/66/739 and A/67/636.  



A/C.5/67/L.23  
 

13-27531 12 
 

 6. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at the 
beginning of the main part of its sixty-eighth session on the projected total 
expenditure on air travel under the regular budget, by budget section, including 
payments under lump-sum schemes, for the biennium 2012-2013, with corresponding 
data for the bienniums 2010-2011 and 2008-2009;  

 7. Recalls section 2 (e) of the annex to resolution 65/268, and requests the 
Secretary-General to continue to monitor industry best practices in the area of 
frequent flyer miles and to report to the General Assembly on any new trend that 
could be utilized to take stock from frequent flyer miles to improve the 
administration of travel;  

 8. Recognizes the efforts by the Secretary-General in initiating the 16-day 
advanced booking of tickets, requests him to make every effort to reduce short-
notice travel and to ensure that trips are booked as much in advance of the travel 
date as possible, and also requests him to ensure that all managers in charge of air 
travel administration, including those in the peacekeeping missions, are informed of 
and comply with such provision;  

 9. Requests the Secretary-General to keep the option of full online booking 
under review in the context of the implementation of Umoja and to report thereon to 
the General Assembly;  

 10. Recalls recommendation 17 in the report of the Office of Internal 
Oversight Services,24 and requests the Secretary-General to strictly abide by the rules 
and procedures governing the procurement process in the United Nations system;  

 11. Recognizes recent efforts by the Secretary-General to use alternative 
methods of procurement, which resulted in a reduction in costs in 2012, and 
requests him to further explore other possible options for the procurement of air 
travel services, taking into account the experiences of other organizations;  

 12. Requests the Secretary-General to maintain the use of preferred carrier 
arrangements offering competitive rates;  

 13. Decides that, for official travellers below the level of Assistant Secretary-
General, the standard of accommodation for air travel will be business class if a 
single-leg journey is 9 hours or more and will be business class for a multi-leg 
journey if the combined travel time of the journey is 11 hours or more, including a 
maximum of 2 hours of connection time, provided that the journey to the next 
destination resumes within 12 hours;  

 14. Requests the Secretary-General to modify his administrative instructions 
on standards of accommodation for air travel so that the duration of a journey shall 
be determined based on the most economical route available, provided that the total 
additional time of the whole journey does not exceed the most direct route by four 
hours;  

 15. Decides that the Secretary-General shall, as an interim measure pending 
the outcome of the review to be concluded in 2015, revise the provision for 
determining the travel-related lump-sum payment to 70 per cent of the least 
restrictive economy class fare, and requests the Secretary-General to include, in his 
report on the standards of accommodation of air travel to be submitted to the 
General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session, an analysis of the impact of the 



 A/C.5/67/L.23
 

13 13-27531 
 

implementation of this provision and to make further proposals on modifying the 
lump-sum scheme;  

 16. Notes the increasing frequency and costs of exceptions to the standards 
of accommodation for air travel, and requests the Secretary-General to take action to 
limit the use of exceptions, to conduct an analysis of the trends in the use of 
exceptions and to present proposals for enhancing controls in this area no later than 
the sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly;  

 17. Requests the Secretary-General to review the use of exceptions for the 
category of prominent persons and to report thereon in the context of the report 
requested in paragraph 16 above;  

 18. Recalls paragraph 27 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions26 and, in that regard, requests the 
Secretary-General to clarify any proposals to encourage other modes of transportation;  

 19. Also recalls section IV, paragraph 4, of its resolution 65/268;  

 20. Decides that the changes set out in the present resolution shall not affect 
the current standards of accommodation for air travel and daily subsistence 
allowance of members of organs and/or subsidiary organs, committees, councils and 
commissions of the United Nations.  

 

 

 

__________________ 

 26  A/66/739. 


