
 United Nations  A/66/516

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
14 October 2011 
 
Original: English 

 

11-54665 (E)    251011 
*1154665*   

Sixty-sixth session 
Agenda items 134 and 146 
 

Proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013 
 

Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing 
of the United Nations peacekeeping operations 

 
 
 

  Revised estimates relating to the proposed programme 
budget for the biennium 2012-2013 under section 29D, 
Office of Central Support Services, and section 30, Office of 
Information and Communications Technology, related to the 
organizational resilience management system: emergency 
management framework 
 
 

  Report of the Secretary-General 
 
 
 

 Summary 
 The present report is submitted pursuant to General Assembly resolution 
64/260, section II, paragraph 11, wherein the Assembly requested the Secretary-
General to develop a comprehensive emergency management framework, including 
emergency preparedness and victim support components that would draw upon 
international best practices, and to submit a proposal in the context of the proposed 
programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013.  

 The present report describes a comprehensive emergency management 
framework based on the organizational resilience management system approach. It 
also describes the outcome, to date, of a pilot organizational resilience management 
system in the Secretariat and presents an example of its practical application in the 
context of the secondary data centre in Piscataway, New Jersey.  

 The report sets out proposed resource requirements in relation to the 
organizational resilience management system and a programme of work to maintain 
the secondary data centre, in respect of the biennium 2012-2013, under section 29D, 
Office of Central Support Services, and section 30, Office of Information and 
Communications Technology, of the proposed programme budget and under the 
support account for peacekeeping operations.  



A/66/516  
 

11-54665 2 
 

 It should be noted that the present report is symbiotic with the report of the 
Secretary-General entitled “Enterprise information and communications technology 
initiatives for the United Nations Secretariat” (A/66/94), specifically the initiative 
entitled “Create a resilient information and communication technology infrastructure”, 
which concentrates on the complementary technology aspects of emergency 
management.  

 



 A/66/516
 

3 11-54665 
 

 I. Background 
 
 

1. The varied nature of threats faced by the Organization, including critical 
infrastructure failures and natural hazard events, together with the vulnerability of 
its global operations, pose a major challenge. The need to effectively manage the 
impact of, and to respond to, these adverse events requires efforts beyond the crisis 
management, emergency response, business continuity planning and victim support 
efforts previously undertaken by the Secretariat and away from Headquarters and at 
its locations away from New York.  

2. To address these challenges and pursuant to a request of the General Assembly 
in its resolution 64/260, a coordinated, integrated and holistic framework for 
emergency management, encompassing all risk-based emergency preparedness and 
response disciplines, is proposed in the present report. The report also seeks to 
respond to the recommendation of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions, endorsed by the Assembly in its resolution 65/290 on 
strengthening the capacity of the United Nations to manage and sustain 
peacekeeping operations, that the organizational resilience functions in the 
Departments of Peacekeeping Operations and Field Support be reviewed in the 
context of the report requested by the Assembly in its resolution 64/260 (sect. II, 
para. 11).  

3. Emergency preparedness and resilience, essential elements of organizational 
governance, are of the utmost importance when planning and conducting activities 
mandated by the Secretariat at all of its locations. Recognizing this, the senior 
emergency policy team (see below) approved a proposal by the Crisis Operations 
Group to pilot an organizational resilience management system1 approach at United 
Nations Headquarters as the basis for the development of a Secretariat-wide 
emergency management framework. In addition to harmonizing and aligning the 
different preparedness activities of the Organization, this framework, based on 
international standards and best practices, will ensure that it is better prepared to 
effectively respond to and recover from serious disruptive incidents.  
 
 

 II. Aim of the organizational resilience management system 
 
 

4. The organizational resilience management system is a Secretariat initiative, 
based upon international best practice, to establish a comprehensive approach to the 
identification and management of risks related to critical disruptive events of any 
nature. Implementation of the system will allow the Secretariat to better prepare for 
and respond to disruptive events and, in many cases, preclude or inhibit those events 
from intensifying into emergency, crisis or disaster situations.  

5. Currently, emergency preparedness efforts in the Secretariat are composed of 
separate planning initiatives that are led by various departments, with specialized 
expertise in their respective substantive areas: safety and security emergency 
operations (led by the Department of Safety and Security), business continuity 
planning, staff and victim support and medical planning (led by the Department of 
Management) and information technology disaster recovery planning (led by the 

__________________ 

 1  American National Standards Institute, ASIS International SPC.1-2009 — Organizational 
Resilience: Security, Preparedness, and Continuity Management Systems.  



A/66/516  
 

11-54665 4 
 

Office of Information and Communications Technology). While most Secretariat 
locations have implemented a crisis decision-making structure that activates their 
different emergency preparedness plans, the Secretariat would benefit from the 
further elaboration of a comprehensive framework under which these initiatives can 
be coordinated and integrated.  

6. The organizational resilience management system provides an emergency 
management framework that integrates emergency planning and preparedness prior 
to a critical event, as well as subsequent actions that address organizational crisis 
response, recovery, reconstitution and the return to normal business. It specifies 
Secretariat crisis management arrangements and brings together the emergency 
management aspects of the functions of business continuity, security, safety, 
emergency medical response, information technology disaster recovery and staff and 
victim support. Emergency plans associated with these functions are interlinked and 
mutually dependent.  

7. The organizational resilience management system constitutes a “management 
system” approach whereby plans are developed using a systematic and coordinated 
process. This is in contrast to the current “silo” approach to emergency 
management, whereby Secretariat entities develop emergency plans that do not take 
into account their relationships, linkages and mutual dependencies.  

8. For example, the pandemic planning exercise, which began with the threat 
posed by the H5N1 virus in 2005, demonstrated the benefit of emergency 
management plans being linked and interdependent. Such preparedness plans cannot 
be invoked without a crisis management structure codified in a crisis management 
plan. Similarly, a pandemic plan sets priorities not only for business process 
recovery, but also for information technology recovery. It follows then that plans 
must be harmonized under an integrated emergency management framework.  

9. On a practical level, adopting the organizational resilience management system 
as a management approach would establish workflows and procedures for the 
common processes of individual activities, such as risk assessment, the development 
of risk management actions and plan maintenance, exercise and review, so that they 
can be conducted jointly in a coordinated way. This will result in the development 
and implementation of a system corresponding to a crisis environment that 
necessitates the simultaneous activation of the crisis response plans of multiple 
activities. The consequence will be a more efficient use of time and resources and 
improved crisis response effectiveness throughout the Secretariat.  
 
 

 III. Methodology for establishing and maintaining the 
organizational resilience management system 
 
 

10. The proposed emergency management framework based on the organizational 
resilience management system comprises interlinked plans, with clear roles and 
responsibilities for decision-making and implementation, coupled with a structured 
maintenance, exercise and review programme. Its implementation consists of five 
consecutive steps: (a) policy establishment, (b) planning, (c) implementation, 
(d) evaluation and (e) management review.  

11. As described above, the first step is to specify an organizational resilience 
management policy. The second step consists of a threat and risk assessment of the 



 A/66/516
 

5 11-54665 
 

natural, political, social and technological environment that could disrupt operations 
at a given location, the outcome of which is a prioritized list of risks with associated 
risk management measures that will be established and linked to a programme for 
action. The third step constitutes the implementation phase, which commences with 
the identification of roles and responsibilities within the system. Step four consists 
of a comprehensive evaluation of the system programme. This step will use the 
feedback from a maintenance, exercise and review regime as a major source of 
information. Step five completes the cycle with a management review.  

12. Within the Secretariat, the senior emergency policy team, chaired by the Chef 
de Cabinet and composed of the senior leadership of most Secretariat departments, 
as well as high-level representatives from agencies, funds and programmes based in 
New York, is responsible for emergency management policy decisions. In June 
2010, the senior emergency policy team approved an organizational resilience 
management system policy that supported the development of a pilot system 
focused on Headquarters in New York. Subsequently, a development group was 
established to develop the system as the pilot emergency management framework at 
Headquarters using the five-step cycle.  

13. The development group conducted the planning and implementation steps of 
the five-step cycle, comprising the establishment of the objectives of the system, the 
conduct of a risk and impact assessment, the analysis of priority risks and the 
derivation of risk management actions from them, one of which is the maintenance 
of the secondary data centre (see sect. V below). The development group also 
assigned roles and responsibilities and developed a maintenance, exercise and 
review programme. The output of the planning effort was the production of a draft 
organizational resilience management system framework, a supporting United 
Nations handbook and a maintenance, evaluation and review programme for 
2011-2012.  

14. Upon the successful implementation of the pilot project mentioned above, the 
senior emergency policy team, in November 2010, reviewed and endorsed the 
organizational resilience management system as the emergency management 
framework. This endorsement validated the five-step cycle and laid the foundation 
for full implementation of the system throughout the global network of the 
Secretariat.  

15. In parallel, a pilot project on the implementation of the system in field 
locations was conducted by the Department of Political Affairs, the Department of 
Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Field Support in close coordination 
with the Department of Management. A training course for 22 field staff from 15 
missions was conducted in April 2011. The course was presented by a joint team of 
the Departments of Peacekeeping Operations, Field Support and Management. 
While the course focused on business continuity planning, it also introduced the 
organizational resilience management system as the overarching emergency 
management framework. At the same time, the departments successfully conducted 
a pilot project to test business continuity methodology (including the organizational 
resilience management system framework) in several field missions.  
 
 



A/66/516  
 

11-54665 6 
 

 IV. Roles and responsibilities 
 
 

 A. Overall responsibility 
 
 

16. As mentioned in paragraph 12 above, the senior emergency policy team is 
accountable to the Secretary-General and is responsible for emergency management 
policy decisions. Under the organizational resilience management system, it also 
maintains strategic oversight over the framework within the Secretariat. The team is 
supported in its responsibilities in relation to the framework by the Business 
Continuity Management Unit in the Department of Management.  

17. The Department of Management, as the lead department for the system, is 
responsible for developing, coordinating and integrating policy, planning, 
implementation and review procedures and processes and for obtaining the 
endorsement of the senior emergency policy team thereon. The Department of 
Management fulfils these responsibilities in close consultation and coordination 
with other Secretariat departments and, at their request, will also provide emergency 
preparedness planning assistance. In order to carry out its responsibilities in regard 
to the system, the Department of Management requires a minimum number of 
dedicated staff members.  

18. Secretariat departments, offices, functional commissions, regional 
commissions and other bodies are responsible for implementing the system in their 
respective organizations, field presences and field operations, in accordance with 
policy and procedures, as approved by the senior emergency policy team. To achieve 
their responsibilities organizations with large field presences and operations will 
also require a minimum number of dedicated staff members.  
 
 

 B. Responsibilities of individual departments and offices 
 
 

19. Recognizing that all the departments of the Organization work together in a 
coordinated way to achieve emergency preparedness and to bring to bear their 
specialized expertise, different departments have the leading role for different 
preparedness plans, as described below.  

20. The Department of Management leads the development, coordination and 
integration of policy and planning procedures for the system, in close consultation 
with other affected departments. It is responsible for providing implementation 
assistance to Secretariat departments and offices in New York, as well as to offices 
away from Headquarters and regional commissions.  

21. Upon request, the Department of Management will also provide assistance for 
the implementation of the system in field operations to the Department of Political 
Affairs, the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, the Department of Field 
Support and the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.  

22. Within the Department of Management, the Business Continuity Management 
Unit in the Office of Central Support Services is responsible for providing guidance 
and hands-on support for the business continuity planning process at Headquarters, 
offices away from Headquarters and regional commissions. The Unit has also 
worked with the Departments of Political Affairs, Peacekeeping Operations and 
Field Support to fulfil their responsibility to introduce the required business 



 A/66/516
 

7 11-54665 
 

continuity framework and tools and to develop the required capacity to sustain 
business continuity in field operations.  

23. The Office of Human Resources Management hosts the emergency 
preparedness and support team, which is dedicated to establishing human resource 
management mechanisms in the case of emergencies involving United Nations staff 
members. The role of the team is to coordinate, enable and guide the Secretariat, 
funds and programmes and all stakeholders prior to, during and after a crisis on all 
matters related to emergency preparedness and support. The team will work across 
the Organization at both the strategic and operational level, through best practices, 
lessons learned and tools, to enable each office and component involved in 
emergency preparedness and response to plan and work from a standard harmonized 
methodology. The team also serves as the communication hub for the Organization 
on all issues pertaining to staff, their dependants, victims and survivors of crisis 
situations. With respect to the emergency preparedness and support team, the Office 
of Human Resources Management intends to come forward with resource requests, 
where necessary, in the biennium 2014-2015, following a review of the workflow 
and activities of the team.  

24. The Medical Services Division in the Office of Human Resources 
Management, which is responsible for providing direct medical support to 
Headquarters, also has a role within the organizational resilience management 
system framework. The Division is responsible for providing all United Nations 
duty stations with policy, guidance, support and training regarding public health 
emergencies (e.g. influenza pandemics or outbreaks of cholera) and mass casualty 
incidents (e.g. bombings, earthquakes and other natural disasters). This entails 
proactive assistance to Headquarters and other duty stations to develop, implement, 
maintain and test public health, emergency medical and mass casualty management 
plans.  

25. Under the direction of the Under-Secretary-General for Safety and Security, 
the Department of Safety and Security oversees the security management system, 
including security planning and its integration into the organizational resilience 
management system. The Division of Headquarters Safety and Security Services 
provides crisis planning capabilities and is responsible for crisis management plans, 
security and contingency plans for Headquarters locations, offices away from 
Headquarters and the regional commissions.  

26. As set out in the reports of the Secretary-General on the enterprise content 
management and customer relationship management systems and proposal for a 
unified disaster recovery and business continuity plan (A/64/477) and on enterprise 
information and communications technology initiatives for the United Nations 
Secretariat (A/66/94), the Office of Information and Communications Technology is 
to establish broad principles and develop a programme of work in which plans are 
set out for the resumption of critical information and communications technology 
services after a disruption that has had an adverse impact on key business functions 
of the Organization. This includes a joint effort with all units to identify critical 
applications that must be resilient and available in a timely fashion after a crisis.  

27. Other departments work with the lead departments and offices identified above 
and participate in the development of overarching preparedness plans for the 
Organization and for their own department or office. As indicated below, 
departments with a field presence are responsible for preparing and executing, as 



A/66/516  
 

11-54665 8 
 

necessary, the preparedness plans for all offices, operations and/or missions falling 
under their direct responsibility.  
 
 

 C. Expansion of the organizational resilience management system to 
United Nations agencies, funds and programmes 
 
 

28. Experience gained during the inter-agency pandemic planning and business 
continuity planning exercises points to the potential value of adopting a common 
emergency management framework with the specialized agencies, funds and 
programmes, based on the organizational resilience management system.  

29. The necessity of integrating elements of emergency preparedness to improve 
resilience to adverse events and to reduce the burden on field offices by realizing 
economies through the integration of emergency planning exercises has also been 
recognized by United Nations agencies, funds and programmes. For example, the 
World Food Programme (WFP) is currently developing a similar approach: the WFP 
preparedness and response enhancement programme. The programme consists of a 
three-year initiative with the objective of enhancing the emergency preparedness 
and response capabilities of WFP, strengthening the links between headquarters and 
the field and enabling increasing levels of response and accountability. Under this 
programme, emergency preparedness and response planning will be enhanced, 
including the sustainable integration of risk management processes — security, 
operational risk management and business continuity — through the roll-out of an 
integrated emergency preparedness and response package.  

30. The Secretary-General proposes to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-
seventh session a follow-up report summarizing the progress made in the 
implementation of the organizational resilience management system in the 
Secretariat and introducing a more comprehensive framework, including for United 
Nations agencies, funds and programmes. In addition, in accordance with the 
provisions of General Assembly resolution 64/260 related to the emergency 
preparedness and support team, in the context of the comprehensive emergency 
management framework, the team will develop the emergency preparedness and 
victim support components, drawing on international best practices.  
 
 

 V. Practical application 
 
 

31. A key benefit of the organizational resilience management system approach is 
integration, which is a fundamental feature underlying the emergency management 
framework. As part of the organizational resilience management framework pilot 
scheme, the Secretariat crisis management structure has endorsed the risk 
assessment produced by the development group, which is drawn from the key 
Secretariat departments and offices having emergency management responsibilities 
and from other United Nations agencies based in New York. By virtue of the 
interdepartmental and inter-agency composition of the group, risk management 
actions reflect the interests of the United Nations at large.  

32. Two practical examples of this approach are the continued maintenance of the 
secondary data centre in Piscataway, New Jersey, and the proposed procurement of 
specialized software needed for the ongoing maintenance of the different emergency 



 A/66/516
 

9 11-54665 
 

preparedness plans that fall under the organizational resilience management system 
framework. Both of these requirements have been identified as key management 
actions.  
 
 

 A. Secondary data centre 
 
 

  Establishment of the centre in Piscataway 
 

33. In its resolution 63/269, the General Assembly approved the proposal of the 
Secretary-General, contained in his report on information and communications 
technology, disaster recovery and business continuity for the United Nations 
(A/63/743), to establish a new secondary data centre for United Nations 
Headquarters to replace the existing centre in the DC2 Building in New York. It was 
recognized that while the primary data centre was being relocated from the 
Secretariat building to the basement of the North Lawn Building, there would be a 
risk of information system failure. In order to mitigate that risk, a new secondary 
data centre would be created during the transitional period. As subsequently 
reported by the Secretary-General in his report on a proposal for risk mitigation 
measures to protect data and the information and communications systems of the 
Secretariat during construction work of the capital master plan (A/64/346/Add.1), 
the Secretariat identified a suitable data centre facility in Piscataway, New Jersey, 
and entered into a 30-month lease, commencing on 1 July 2009 (with an option to 
renew, if necessary, for an additional 30 months). In its resolution 64/228, the 
General Assembly requested the Secretary-General to continue to take advantage of 
the current economic climate in order to negotiate the most cost-effective lease and 
services possible and to report thereon to the Assembly at its sixty-fifth session.  

34. Design of the facility was started in the first week of July 2009 and 
construction began in early August 2009. Construction was completed in the fourth 
quarter of 2009 and the facility became fully operational shortly thereafter. As 
reported in the eighth annual progress report on the implementation of the capital 
master plan (A/65/511), the secondary data centre was completed on time and 
ensured uninterrupted service for systems that were relocated during the period of 
the primary data centre migration, thus mitigating risks associated with the move. 
The capital master plan migration process, to which the secondary data centre was a 
key contributor, was completed on 15 October 2010.  
 

  Broadening the purpose of the secondary data centre to include support for the 
organizational resilience management system 
 

35. Since October 2010, the secondary data centre has continued to operate as a 
replacement for the disaster recovery facility in the DC2 Building, which was in 
service for many years. At present, the secondary data centre is hosting enterprise-
critical systems; however, it would be more cost-effective to integrate enterprise-
critical applications, such as Umoja, i-Need, Inspira, e-mail and the Integrated 
Management Information System, into the enterprise data centres. Hence, the 
Secretary-General, in his report on enterprise information and communications 



A/66/516  
 

11-54665 10 
 

technology initiatives for the Secretariat (A/66/94),2 proposes to migrate all 
enterprise-critical systems to the enterprise data centres, which will lessen the 
requirements on the secondary data centre to provide resilience for Headquarters, as 
well as other duty stations. It is expected that as the organizational resilience 
management system is further implemented, other enterprise-critical systems will be 
identified (in a collaborative exercise among departments and offices, the Business 
Continuity Management Unit and the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology), which will further reduce the requirements for the secondary data 
centre and correspondingly other local data centres within the Secretariat.  

36. Going forward, the secondary data centre will need to remain in service to 
support site-specific applications and to support organizational resilience at 
Headquarters. Should the Assembly approve the proposal of the Secretary-General 
for the enterprise data centres, it is estimated that it will take two years to migrate 
the current list of enterprise-critical applications. Thereafter, it will be possible to 
reduce the size and cost of the secondary data centre.  

37. In its report on information and communications technology security, disaster 
recovery and business continuity for the United Nations (A/63/774), specifically 
paragraphs 7, 8, 13, 14, 20 and 21, the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions raised a number of matters regarding the establishment of the 
secondary data centre. These are addressed in annexes I and II to the present report.  
 

  Status of the secondary data centre 
 

38. Funding for the establishment of the secondary data centre and its operation 
through to 2011 were provided jointly under the budget of the capital master plan 
and the support account for peacekeeping operations. An overview of actual and 
projected expenditure against approved funding for the implementation of the centre 
is provided in tables 1 to 3 below.  
 
 

__________________ 

 2  See paras. 121, 122 and 123 (d). The enterprise data centre proposal comprises two data centres: 
the primary one is at the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindsi, Italy, whose function is to 
host enterprise-critical systems for duty stations worldwide, and the secondary centre is at the 
United Nations Support Base in Valencia, Spain, which serves as a backup system to provide 
organizational resilience. 



 A/66/516
 

11 11-54665 
 

  Table 1 
Expenditure for the biennium 2008-2009 against approved funding from the 
capital master plan 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 

 Approveda Expenditure Unexpended balance

Object of expenditure (a) (b) (c)=(a)–(b)

1. Non-recurrent expenditures  

 Contractual services 1 273.7 1 115.8 157.8

 Furniture and equipment  

  Data centre equipment 1 823.8 1 860.0 (36.2)

 Subtotal 3 097.5 2 975.8 121.6

2. Recurrent expenditures  

 General operating expenses  

  Lease of data centre facility 1 515.2 1 467.4 47.8

 Furniture and equipment  

  Data centre equipment maintenance and lease 484.2 403.0 81.2

 Subtotal 1 999.4 1 870.4 129.0

 Total 5 096.9 4 846.2 250.6
 

 a General Assembly resolution 63/269; see also A/64/346/Add.1.  
 
 

  Table 2 
Projected expenditure for the biennium 2010-2011 against approved funding 
from the capital master plan 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 

 
Approved a
2010-2011

Expenditure 
2010 

Forecast
2011

Unexpended
balance

Object of expenditure (a) (b) (c) (d)=(a)–(b)–(c)

General operating expenses  

 Lease of data centre facility 2 261.6 1 130.8 1 130.8 —

Contractual services  

 Data centre services (other contractors) 1 713.4 1 009.7 548.9 154.8

Furniture and equipment  

 Data centre equipment acquisition and maintenance 5 428.3 1 976.5 3 323.8 128.0

Communication  

 Telecommunication 2 193.5 — 2 193.5 —

Construction  

 Alterations and improvements 47.7 36.6 — 11.1

 Total 11 644.5 4 153.6 7 197.0 293.9
 

 a General Assembly resolution 64/228.  
 



A/66/516  
 

11-54665 12 
 

  Table 3 
Actual and projected expenditure to 30 June 2012 against approved funding from 
the support account for peacekeeping operations 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 

Object of expenditure 
Approved

2009/10
Expenditure

2009/10
Approved

2010/11
Expenditure 

 2010/11 
Approved

2011/12
Forecast
2011/12

1. Non-recurrent expenditures  

 Contractual services  

  Commissioning equipment 301.4 1 254.3 — — — —

  Migrating applications 109.7 — — — — —

 Furniture and equipment  

  Data centre equipment 430.6 — — — — —

 Travel 100.0 92.2 — — — —

 Subtotal 941.7 1 346.5 — — — —

2. Recurrent expenditures  

 General operating expenses  

  Lease of data centre facility 687.7 676.3 401.4 401.4 326.3 212.8

 Contractual services  

  Data centre services (other 
contractors) — — 298.4 282.1 143.8 137.2

 Furniture and equipment  

  Data centre equipment 
maintenance and lease 402.4 — 554.4 533.9 471.5 456.3

 Communication  

  Telecommunication — — — — — 92.7

 Subtotal 1 090.1 676.3 1 254.2 1 217.4 941.6 899.0

 Total 2 031.8 2 022.8 1 254.2 1 217.4 941.6 899.0
 
 

  Future requirements for the secondary data centre 
 

39. In his report on the status of the information and communications technology 
strategy for the United Nations Secretariat (A/65/491), the Secretary-General 
requested approval to enter into the optional lease extension for the site of the 
secondary data centre, which was recommended by the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions in its report on information and 
communications technology (A/65/576) and subsequently endorsed by the Assembly 
in its resolution 65/259.  

40. The lease is for 2,400 ft2 of data centre space and an additional 1,569 ft2 of 
office space that is currently being used as a network operations centre for the 
secondary data centre.  

41. The lease cost associated with the data centre is inclusive of the provision of 
all data centre support infrastructure (emergency power distribution and computer 
room air-conditioning systems) and the cost associated with its operation and 



 A/66/516
 

13 11-54665 
 

maintenance. The United Nations is responsible for the cost of electricity and diesel 
fuel, based on monthly consumption.  

42. The overall financial requirements for the secondary data centre facility over 
the course of 30 months, from 1 January 2012 to 30 June 2014, are shown below in 
table 4.  
 

  Table 4 
  Projected resource requirements under the regular budget and from the support 

account for peacekeeping operations  
(Thousands of United States dollars) 

 Regular budget Peacekeeping budgeta 

Object of expenditure 2012-2013 2014-2015 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 Total

Recurrent expenditures   

Contractual services   

 Data centre services 
(other contractors) — — 137.2 — — 137.2

General operating expenses   

 Lease of data centre facility and 
utilities 1 767.6 458.3 212.8 220.9 229.2 2 888.8

 Data centre equipment maintenance 
and lease 388.8 97.2 456.3 48.6 48.6 1 039.5

 Communications 741.9 185.5 92.7 92.7 92.7 1 205.5

 Total 2 898.3 741.0 899.0 362.2 370.5 5 271.0
 

 a 1 July-30 June. 
 
 

43. The recurrent biennial operational costs for the secondary data centre will 
include:  

 (a) A provision of $137,200 as foreseen under contractual services for data 
centre services; 

 (b) A provision of $2,888,800 to cover the requirements under general 
operating expenses, which include the secondary data centre facility lease for 
30 months covering the period 1 January 2012 to 30 June 2014 ($2,348,200) and the 
cost of electricity for power and cooling ($540,600); 

 (c) A provision of $1,039,500 to cover the maintenance and support of the 
servers and network equipment in the centre, including the lease payments for 
storage;  

 (d) A provision of $1,205,500 for telecommunication costs to cover Internet 
($273,200) and gigabyte Ethernet ($274,500) connections, Fibre Channel cables 
($390,700) and synchronous optical networking ($267,100 base cost) to provide 
high-speed links to the centre.  

44. It is proposed that the current cost-sharing arrangement for the centre, whereby 
20 per cent of the costs are met from the peacekeeping support account and 80 per 
cent from the regular budget, be continued, on the basis of the proportion of capacity 



A/66/516  
 

11-54665 14 
 

in the Headquarters data centre used for peacekeeping and non-peacekeeping 
operations. 
 
 

 B. Software for maintenance of emergency preparedness plans and 
the staff accounting system 
 
 

45. As described above, the organizational resilience management system 
framework encompasses all the different emergency preparedness plans of the 
Secretariat. It also identifies links and common activities that can be undertaken in a 
joint fashion within the framework. Two such activities are: (a) the implementation 
of a system to account for all staff based in New York in a crisis, identified as a 
requirement in the “lessons learned” review of the Haiti crisis response and from 
recent events in North Africa; and (b) the automated maintenance of essential 
information contained in the different preparedness plans.  

46. The Department of Safety and Security maintains an emergency notification 
system for a limited number of staff, but the Organization generally relies on 
broadcast e-mail, an automated message on a staff information hotline and a static 
website to transmit crisis information to staff. These tools do not allow the 
Organization to effectively communicate with all staff during a crisis event and 
track their status. If a crisis occurs outside office hours, staff members will often not 
read their e-mail and may not receive important information. It is therefore crucial 
for reasons of safety and security to be able to contact all staff using the suite of 
telecommunication devices available, including personal mobile phones and e-mail. 
While a global solution is being considered, under the leadership of the Department 
of Safety and Security with the Business Continuity Management Unit, it is 
recommended that the current emergency staff notification system be expanded to 
allow for the concurrent notification in a crisis of all staff based in New York. 

47. To ensure that the emergency notification system functions properly, it is 
necessary to conduct tests every two to three months by sending out test messages to 
all the available staff telecommunication devices. These tests involve costs, which 
are set out in table 5 below. 

48. Common components of preparedness plans, such as maintenance of staff 
contact data and maintenance of information on the critical infrastructure of the 
Organization (business processes, information technology systems, documents, etc.), 
have to be continuously updated, requiring a lot of effort without an automated 
system.  

49. To address this issue, it is proposed that the Organization, under the leadership 
of the Business Continuity Management Unit, procure specialized software that will 
allow for automated maintenance of all the information contained in preparedness 
plans, thereby avoiding time-intensive manual updating and duplication of the same 
information in different plan documents. 
 

  Resource requirements for software to maintain emergency preparedness plans 
and the staff accounting system 
 

50. The resource requirements, summarized in table 5 below, under the regular 
budget for the biennium 2012-2013 for the procurement of software for the 
maintenance of emergency preparedness plans and the cost of expansion of the 



 A/66/516
 

15 11-54665 
 

existing staff accounting system are estimated as follows: (a) under furniture and 
equipment, a one-time provision of $95,000 for the procurement of software that 
will allow for the maintenance of emergency preparedness plans; (b) under 
contractual services, a one-time provision of $68,000 for the cost of expansion of 
the current emergency notification system; (c) a recurrent provision of $20,000 for 
the biennial maintenance fee for software for the emergency preparedness plans; and 
(d) a provision of $60,000 for the cost of regularly conducting tests of the 
emergency notification system.  
 

  Table 5 
  Regular budget resource requirements for software, 2012-2013 

(Thousands of United States dollars) 

Object of expenditure  

1. Non-recurrent expenditure  

 Furniture and equipment  

  Software to maintain emergency preparedness plans 95.0 

 Contractual services  

  Maintenance fee for expansion of the emergency notification system 68.0 

2. Recurrent expenditure  

 Contractual services  

  Biennial maintenance fee for software to maintain emergency 
preparedness plans 20.0 

  Testing of the emergency notification system 60.0 

 Total 243.0 
 
 
 

 VI. Request for the establishment of posts for business 
continuity in the Department of Management, the 
Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the 
Department of Field Support 
 
 

51. The three temporary positions of the Business Continuity Management Unit 
(1 P-5, 1 P-4 and 1 General Service) have been funded through general temporary 
assistance since September 2007. The positions were originally established to take 
on the work of the New York pandemic coordinator, as indicated in the report of the 
Secretary-General on revised estimates relating to the proposed programme budget 
for the biennium 2008-2009 to ensure operational preparedness and business 
continuity in a protracted human influenza pandemic crisis (A/62/328), and to 
ensure implementation of business continuity at Headquarters, offices away from 
Headquarters and regional commissions.  

52. As a result, a business continuity planning methodology has been implemented 
in all of those duty stations. While business continuity programmes and capabilities 
have been established under general temporary assistance funding, it has been 
recognized that the effective maintenance of these programmes requires a more 
permanent and dedicated set-up. It is therefore proposed to convert the positions in 



A/66/516  
 

11-54665 16 
 

the Business Continuity Management Unit into established posts under the regular 
budget.  

53. This will ensure that business continuity management will be successfully 
maintained and embedded in the culture of the Organization, enhancing its 
institutionalization and resilience. Maintaining a complex programme, such as 
business continuity management, is not achievable with a one-time effort, but 
requires continuous investment on the part of the Organization.  

54. Furthermore, since its establishment, the tasks of the Business Continuity 
Management Unit have been extended. As described in the present report, the Unit 
will also take on the function of provision of support and guidance for the 
implementation of organizational resilience in the Organization, making a more 
permanent establishment of the Unit’s posts even more essential. In addition, the 
Unit is frequently called upon to assist other entities with the implementation of 
business continuity, ensuring that the United Nations follows a consistent approach 
to business continuity and enabling it to respond in a more coherent fashion when 
faced with adverse events.  

55. The Unit will continue to be located in the Office of Central Support Services, 
under the direct supervision of the Assistant Secretary-General, and will perform the 
same functions.  

56. While the overall business continuity strategy for the Secretariat is the joint 
responsibility of the Business Continuity Management Unit and the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology, the Department of Peacekeeping 
Operations and the Department of Field Support have sole responsibility for 
implementing business continuity within their headquarters and field operations, 
with oversight from the Business Continuity Management Unit and the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology. Since July 2010, two general 
temporary assistance positions have been funded in the Office of the Chief of Staff, 
Department of Peacekeeping Operations/Department of Field Support (1 P-4 
Organizational Resilience Officer and 1 General Service) to enable the departments 
to meet their direct responsibility for organizational resilience at Headquarters and 
in all field missions.  

57. Through the efforts of the staff engaged against these funds, a business 
continuity planning methodology that takes into account the peacekeeping 
dimension of emergency preparedness has been developed and implemented in all 
Department of Peacekeeping Operations/Department of Field Support field 
operations, with the support of the Department of Management and in line with the 
established business continuity framework. The roll-out of the planning 
methodology has been supported by a training course for field operation business 
continuity planners. As is the case for the Department of Management, business 
continuity programmes and capabilities established under general temporary 
assistance funding will continue to be needed to ensure the continuous and effective 
maintenance of organizational resilience programmes and business continuity plans, 
requiring an established, dedicated staff capacity of one P-4 post and one General 
Service (Other level) post for the purpose.  

58. The evolution and proper implementation of the organizational resilience 
management system will require an expansion in coordination of emergency 
preparedness plans, in particular within the field operations, as well as the 



 A/66/516
 

17 11-54665 
 

development and oversight of related training and exercise programmes. It is 
therefore proposed to convert the two positions (1 P-4 Organizational Resilience 
Officer and 1 General Service support staff) into established posts, effective 1 July 
2012, to be funded from the support account for peacekeeping operations for the 
financial period from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013. 
 
 

 VII. Resource requirements 
 
 

59. The Secretary-General has outlined above his proposals for a comprehensive 
emergency management framework based on the organizational resilience 
management system approach and requests the General Assembly to consider 
providing the following resources: 

 (a) With respect to the operational costs for the secondary data centre, the 
Secretary-General recommends that the Assembly approve resources in the amount 
of $2,898,300 for the operation of the centre; 

 (b) With respect to the software for maintenance of emergency preparedness 
plans and the staff accounting system, the Secretary-General recommends that the 
Assembly approve one-time resources for contractual services ($68,000) and 
acquisition of software ($95,000), as well as recurrent resources for software 
maintenance and testing of the system ($80,000); 

 (c) With respect to the three temporary positions (1 P-5, 1 P-4 and 1 General 
Service (Other level)) in the Business Continuity Management Unit provided from 
the regular budget, the Secretary-General recommends converting the three 
positions currently funded from general temporary assistance to established posts, 
effective 1 January 2012, as it has been determined that they will be required on a 
continuing basis. The Secretary-General also recommends a similar action for the 
two temporary positions (1 P-4 and 1 General Service) in the Office of the Chief of 
Staff, Department of Peacekeeping Operations/Department of Field Support, 
currently funded from general temporary assistance from the support account for 
peacekeeping operations, effective 1 July 2012. 

60. Accordingly, should the General Assembly agree with the above proposals, 
additional resource requirements in the amount of $3,141,300 would be considered 
in accordance with the provisions governing the contingency fund in accordance 
with the terms of Assembly resolutions 41/213 and 42/211. In this regard, it is 
recalled that the Assembly, in its resolution 65/262, approved a contingency fund for 
the biennium 2012-2013 in the amount of $40.5 million.  
 
 

 VIII. Actions to be taken by the General Assembly 
 
 

61. The General Assembly is requested: 

 (a) To approve the organizational resilience management system 
approach as the emergency management framework;  

 (b) To approve the total estimated cost of the extended lease of the 
secondary data centre in Piscataway for 30 months beyond 31 December 2011, 
as endorsed by the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions in its report on information and communications technology 



A/66/516  
 

11-54665 18 
 

(A/65/576), pending the further work required before the implementation of the 
proposed plan; 

 (c) To approve the conversion of the three existing general temporary 
assistance positions in the Business Continuity Management Unit to established 
posts under section 29D, Office of Central Support Services, of the proposed 
programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013;  

 (d) To appropriate a total amount of $3,141,300 under the proposed 
programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013, comprising increases under 
section 29D, Office of Central Support Services ($243,000), and section 30, 
Office of Information and Communications Technology ($2,898,300), 
representing a charge against the contingency fund;  

 (e) To note that the regular budget portion of the future remaining 
requirements of the secondary data centre for the period from 1 January to 
30 June 2014, amounting to $741,000, will be included in the proposed 
programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015; 

 (f) To approve the conversion of the two existing general temporary 
assistance organizational resilience positions (1 P-4 and 1 General Service 
(Other level)) in the Office of the Chief of Staff, Department of Peacekeeping 
Operations/Department of Field Support to established posts, effective 1 July 
2012, to be funded from the support account for peacekeeping operations for 
the financial period from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013;  

 (g) To note that an amount of $941,600 under the support account for 
peacekeeping operations has been approved under resolution 64/228 for the 
financial period 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012 for the secondary data centre; 

 (h) To note that future requirements for the secondary data centre in an 
estimated amount of $362,200 will be included in the requirements for the 
support account for peacekeeping operations for the financial period from 
1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013 and that an estimated amount of $370,500 will be 
included in the requirements for the support account for the period from 1 July 
2013 to 30 June 2014. 



 A/66/516
 

19 11-54665 
 

Annex I 
 

  List of current enterprise-critical systems and their 
resilience status  
 
 

1. In paragraphs 13 and 14 of its report on information and communications 
technology, disaster recovery and business continuity for the United Nations 
(A/63/774), the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
commented on the process for determining critical information technology systems. 

2. In its resolution 63/262, the General Assembly requested the Secretary-
General to prioritize systems in order to minimize the cost of disaster recovery and 
business continuity. In this respect, the Advisory Committee urged the Secretariat to 
make every effort to conclude this process expeditiously and to provide the 
Assembly with an inventory of systems classified according to their degree of 
criticality at the time of its consideration of this question. 

3. The prioritization exercise is being undertaken by the Business Continuity 
Management Unit of the Office of Central Support Services as part of the business 
continuity planning process, and the designation of critical systems is a key outcome 
of this process. The determination of critical systems for United Nations 
Headquarters has been completed and the list of designated critical systems was 
included in the Secretariat business continuity plan, which was endorsed by the 
senior emergency policy team on 29 June 2010. Additional systems will be 
evaluated as appropriate. 

4. The Advisory Committee was also of the view that the terminology used to 
qualify systems, which are referred to as critical, major, important or non-critical, 
merited clarification. 

5. In response to the above-mentioned request of the General Assembly and the 
Advisory Committee’s request for further clarification, a list of the critical 
Headquarters applications and technology systems is provided in the table below, 
along with information on where and how the systems are hosted and backed up 
within the Secretariat. 

6. The table contains a list of 76 applications, which have been identified as 
critical (see column 1). Of those, a total of 25 applications are designated as 
enterprise-critical.  
 

  Enterprise-critical applications and systems (currently resilient) 
 

7. All the applications with this designation (column 4) can be run from backup 
servers in the secondary data centre. This means that if the primary data centre goes 
offline, those applications can still operate; they are fully resilient in the secondary 
data centre.  
 

  Data backed up in the secondary data centre 
 

8. The table also identifies 51 local applications that are critical, 20 of which are 
also backed up by the secondary data centre in Piscataway (column 2). These 
applications cannot be run from backup servers in the secondary data centre, but the 
historical information contained in the systems is safeguarded. Hence, if the primary 
data centre has a partial or total outage, data for the applications is not lost (e.g. 



A/66/516  
 

11-54665 20 
 

Lotus Notes e-mail, iSeek web pages). Some of the data are replicated instantly, 
such as Integrated Management Information System (IMIS) data, e-mail and 
security videos, while other data are copied nightly. 
 

  Mobile Office 
 

9. If the primary data centre remains online but staff are required to work from 
home, for example in the case of a pandemic, some operations can still be accessed 
remotely from home, provided the staff member has Mobile Office access on his or 
her computer. All 25 enterprise-critical applications and 20 critical local 
applications are accessible via Mobile Office (column 3). 
 

Systems designated as critical at United Nations Headquarters 
 

Application 
(1) 

Data backed up in 
secondary data 
centre 
(2) 

Available in 
Mobile Office 
(remote access) 
(3) 

Enterprise-critical 
applications/systems 
(currently resilient) 
(4) 

Department 
(5) 

1. IMIS     

2. Lotus Notes     

3. iSeek Y Y Y Multiple 
departments 

4. Shared drives     

5. Galaxy/Inspira     

6. un.org     

7. CORLOG database     

8. Mobile Office     

9. Customer relationship management, Siebel Y Y Y EOSG 

10. Nucleus     

11. MARS     

12. FPMS Y Y N DFS 

13. Videoconferencing     

14. Sun system     

15. CDU case files     

16. SLAS roster     

17. Oxford Analytical     

18. CMOS database     

19. PMSTAR N N N DFS 

20. Government claims     

21. Management system     

22. HP Open View     

23. Swift     

24. BIS     

25. OPICS     

26. IMIS DIAG (diagnostic) Y Y Y OPPBA 

27. OPICS Integrated Consolidated System     



 A/66/516
 

21 11-54665 
 

Application 
(1) 

Data backed up in 
secondary data 
centre 
(2) 

Available in 
Mobile Office 
(remote access) 
(3) 

Enterprise-critical 
applications/systems 
(currently resilient) 
(4) 

Department 
(5) 

28. Nova     

29. UNICEF SAP     

30. Insight     

31. FMT     

32. Paradox N N N OPPBA 

33. Invoice tracker     

34. Bloomberg Anywhere     

35. ODS Y Y Y DGACM 

36. ProcurePlus     

37. ProcurePlus bid processing     

38. ProcurePlus reporting system     

39. ProcurePlus scheduling system Y Y Y OCSS/PD 

40. ProcurePlus contract tracking     

41. Requisition assignment system     

42. Requisition tracking system     

43. Nova (CMP tailored) Y Y N CMP 

44. Microsoft Project     

45. AutoCad N N N CMP 

46. Primavera     

47. e-Meets     

48. e-Doc     

49. DTSearch Y Y N DGACM 

50. Photoshop     

51. InDesign     

52. APG     

53. NICE      

54. Avanti N N N DGACM 

55. Adobe CS3     

56. Kodak Prinergy EVO     

57. sqlP     

58. Trim Context 6     

59. Sabre Y Y N OCSS/FCSD 

60. Vendor registration system     

61. Laissez-passer issuance and administration system N N N OCSS/FCSD 

62. Various Lotus Notes databases Y Y N DPA 

63. UN file transfer protocol N N N DPI 

64. ProGen payroll Y Y N DPKO 

65. AllPerson     



A/66/516  
 

11-54665 22 
 

Application 
(1) 

Data backed up in 
secondary data 
centre 
(2) 

Available in 
Mobile Office 
(remote access) 
(3) 

Enterprise-critical 
applications/systems 
(currently resilient) 
(4) 

Department 
(5) 

66. Human resources data warehouse N N N OHRM 

67. CRM (OHRM)     

68. CMS     

69. Ez-HR     

70. Earthmed (MSD) Y Y N OHRM/MSD 

71. Auto audit     

72. Case management system OIOS N N N OIOS 

73. DSS website control Y Y N DSS 

74. TRIP     

75. United Nations Security Management Network     

76. Security management system database N N N DSS 
 

Abbreviations: BIS, budget information system; CDU, Conduct and Discipline Unit; CMOS, Current Military Operations Service; 
CMP, capital master plan project; CMS, content management system; CRM, customer relationship management; DGACM, 
Department for General Assembly and Conference Management; PD, Procurement Division; DFS, Department of Field 
Support; DPKO, Department of Peacekeeping Operations; DPA, Department of Political Affairs; DPI, Department of Public 
Information; DSS, Department of Safety and Security; EOSG, Executive Office of the Secretary-General; FCSD, Facilities 
and Commercial Services Division; FMT, funds monitoring tool; FPMS, Field Personnel Management System; MARS, Mail 
Action Records System; MSD, Medical Services Division; NICE, Neptune Intelligence Computer Engineering; ODS, Official 
Document System; OHRM, Office of Human Resources Management; OIOS, Office of Internal Oversight Services; OPICS, 
Operations Processing Integrated Control System; OPPBA, Office of Programme Planning, Budget and Accounts; PMSTAR, 
Police and Military Staff Travel and Rotation; SAP, Systems, Applications, Products in Data-Processing; SLAS, Senior 
Leadership Appointments Section; TRIP, travel request information processing; UNICEF, United Nations Children’s Fund. 

 
 

 



 A/66/516
 

23 11-54665 
 

Annex II  
 

  Responses to matters raised by the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions  
 
 

1. In its report on information and communications technology, disaster recovery 
and business continuity for the United Nations (A/63/774), the Advisory Committee 
on Administrative and Budgetary Questions raised a number of matters, specifically 
in paragraphs 7, 8, 14, 20 and 21, which are set out in the table below, together with 
the response of the Secretary-General.  

2. The Committee also commented on the process for determining critical 
systems in paragraphs 13 and 14, which are addressed in annex I.  
 

Recommendation  Response 

The Committee recommends that a final decision on 
whether to lease or purchase be based on an analysis of 
which option would result in the least cost to the 
Organization, taking into account the expected lifespan 
of the relevant ICT equipment (A/63/774, para. 7). 

In deciding the location of the secondary data centre, a 
thorough analysis was undertaken with respect to the 
costs associated with either renovating the existing 
facility in the DC2 Building or seeking an acceptable 
lease for a nearby “ready” facility. A secondary data 
centre in Piscataway represented the best alternative, 
due to significant difficulties with the DC2 facility 
related to deficient emergency power, poor air 
conditioning and other factors, which made it unlikely 
that a retrofit would be possible within the time frames 
required by the capital master plan. It was imperative 
to meet this time frame, since there were significant 
potential costs related to construction delays 
(approximately $14 million per month) if an 
operational backup facility could not be completed on 
time. The secondary data centre was completed on 
time and construction delays were avoided, which 
demonstrates that the best alternative for the 
Secretariat was selected. 

The Committee was informed that, due to capacity 
limitations in the primary data centre in the Secretariat 
building, [certain] non-critical departmental applications 
are hosted in DC2 only (ibid., para. 14). 

The migration of the primary data centre to the North 
Lawn Building was completed in 2010 and the new 
facility has greater capacity, which means that the 
non-critical systems previously hosted in the DC2 
secondary data centre are now hosted in the primary 
data centre facility. 

The Committee emphasizes the importance of the 
conduct of a full analysis of costs and the provision of 
complete costing information to facilitate its 
consideration of and decision-making on such proposals, 
particularly in the light of the potential for duplication 
and the resource implications (ibid., para. 8). 

The proposed organizational resilience management 
system framework will provide a business-led 
coordinated strategy which will ensure that 
organizational resilience is realized at the most 
efficient cost. 



A/66/516  
 

11-54665 24 
 

Recommendation  Response 

The Committee further recommends that the Secretary-
General be requested to review the migration strategy 
with a view to seeking efficiencies, prioritizing among 
the critical and non-critical applications to be migrated 
and optimizing the utilization of existing facilities, and 
to ensure that the scope of the project is as lean as 
possible, consistent with the need to preserve the 
integrity of the Organization’s data (ibid., para. 20). 

The Secretary-General presented his proposal for 
streamlining data centres in his report on the status of 
implementation of the information and 
communications technology strategy for the United 
Nations Secretariat (A/65/491), which also described 
estimated savings associated with the establishment of 
an enterprise data centre. The General Assembly 
requested the Secretary-General to present new and/or 
revised proposals (resolution 65/259) and in response 
the Secretary-General has set out amended proposals 
in his report on enterprise information and 
communications technology initiatives for the United 
Nations Secretariat (A/66/94, sect. II.D). This proposal 
envisages that the local data centre configuration will 
require facilities such as the secondary data centre to 
be maintained, but with a much smaller footprint and 
at a lower cost. 

It should be noted that the Headquarters secondary 
data centre was designed with a small footprint, with a 
view to later migrating the enterprise-critical systems 
to an enterprise data centre when ready. As elaborated 
upon in the above-mentioned report, the Secretary-
General has fully leveraged all existing facilities to 
lower costs and restated the benefits related to the 
enterprise data centre concept. After thorough 
analysis, it was determined that it was less expensive 
and more efficient to leverage existing facilities in the 
United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, and the 
United Nations Support Base in Valencia. In addition, 
this will stem migration costs for enterprise systems, 
such as Umoja and others. Migration will be 
implemented with close consultation between 
departments, offices, the Business Continuity 
Management Unit and the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology.  

Enterprise-critical systems will be hosted in the 
enterprise data centre, while local unique systems will 
be hosted in local data centres and will be backed up 
in local secondary data centres. In this manner, only 
enterprise-critical applications will be backed up at the 
enterprise data centre, significantly reducing operating 
and disaster recovery costs to the Secretariat. 



 A/66/516
 

25 11-54665 
 

Recommendation  Response 

The Committee recommends that the Secretary-General 
be requested to utilize the services of an independent 
expert possessing a high degree of technical experience 
in the field of migration and relocation of data centres to 
validate the project implementation plan and provide 
advice to the implementation team, as required, without 
disrupting the project schedule, to be funded from 
within existing resources (ibid., para. 21). 

Since the report of the Committee was prepared, the 
Business Continuity Management Unit and the Office 
of Information and Communications Technology have 
identified the required methodologies and are 
currently implementing processes based on these best 
practice methodologies to effectively manage this 
ongoing need of classifying systems/applications. 

These methodologies and practices were used to 
determine the population of critical systems for 
Headquarters, which has now been completed. The 
resulting list comprises both enterprise-critical and 
other unique, critical local systems, and is set out in 
annex I to the present report. 

 

 

 


