
 United Nations  A/66/7/Add.10

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
9 November 2011 
 
Original: English 

 

11-58716 (E)    141111     
*1158716*   

Sixty-sixth session 
Agenda items 134 and 146 
 

Proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013 
 

Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of 
the United Nations peacekeeping operations 

 
 
 

  Revised estimates relating to the proposed programme 
budget for the biennium 2012-2013 under section 29D, 
Office of Central Support Services, and section 30, Office  
of Information and Communications Technology, related  
to the organizational resilience management system: 
emergency management framework  
 
 

  Eleventh report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions on the proposed programme budget for the 
biennium 2012-2013 
 
 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has 
considered the report of the Secretary-General on revised estimates relating to the 
proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013 under section 29D, Office 
of Central Support Services, and section 30, Office of Information and 
Communications Technology, related to the organizational resilience management 
system: emergency management framework (A/66/516). During its consideration of 
the report, the Committee met with representatives of the Secretary-General, who 
provided additional information and clarification.  

2. The Advisory Committee notes that the report of the Secretary-General on the 
emergency management framework should be read in conjunction with his report on 
enterprise information and communications technology initiatives for the United 
Nations Secretariat (A/66/94), which provides more detail on the information 
technology aspects of emergency management. The Committee’s related report will 
be submitted separately for consideration by the General Assembly. 



A/66/7/Add.10  
 

11-58716 2 
 

3. The report of the Secretary-General was submitted in response to General 
Assembly resolution 64/260, in which the Assembly requested the Secretary-
General to develop a comprehensive emergency management framework that would 
draw upon international best practices, and to resolution 65/290, in which the 
Assembly endorsed the recommendation of the Advisory Committee that the 
organizational resilience functions in the Departments of Peacekeeping Operations 
and Field Support be reviewed. 

4. The Advisory Committee regrets that the report of the Secretary-General 
does not respond fully to the request of the General Assembly in its resolution 
64/260, in which it called for the development of a comprehensive emergency 
management framework. In the Committee’s view, and as explained in more 
detail in the paragraphs below, the organizational resilience management 
system proposed by the Secretary-General cannot be regarded as 
comprehensive because the full scope of its application has not yet been 
determined and the full quantum of resources required for its operation is not 
yet known. While it recognizes the difficulty of bringing a series of discrete 
initiatives, developed and implemented by different departments and offices 
and funded from various sources, into one cohesive whole, the Committee 
considers that greater efforts should have been made to map out the final shape 
and size of the organizational resilience management system, even if some of its 
elements are not yet ready for full implementation. It is with these observations 
in mind that the Committee has made the recommendations on resource 
requirements set out in the paragraphs below. 
 
 

 II. Organizational resilience management system: aim, 
implementation modalities and perspectives for  
system-wide application 
 
 

5. In his report, the Secretary-General indicates that existing emergency 
preparedness efforts in the Secretariat consist of separate planning initiatives led by 
individual departments with specialized expertise in relevant areas (the Department 
of Safety and Security for safety and security emergency operations; the Department 
of Management for business continuity planning, staff and victim support and 
medical planning; and the Office of Information and Communications Technology 
for information technology disaster recovery planning). He explains that the aim of 
the proposed new organizational resilience management system is to institutionalize 
a comprehensive framework under which those separate initiatives can be 
coordinated and integrated, taking into account their relationships, linkages and 
mutual dependencies. On a practical level, the system would allow for the 
establishment of workflows and procedures for common processes of individual 
emergency management and preparedness activities, such as risk assessment, the 
development of risk management actions and plan maintenance, exercise and 
review, resulting in a more efficient use of time and resources and improved crisis 
response effectiveness (A/66/516, paras. 5-9). 

6. The Secretary-General states that the proposed organizational resilience 
management system is based on a standard approved by ASIS International, a 
non-profit professional society dedicated to increasing the effectiveness and 
productivity of security professionals (A/66/516, footnote 1). Upon enquiry, the 



 A/66/7/Add.10
 

3 11-58716 
 

Advisory Committee was informed that the Department of Safety and Security had 
introduced the standard, which represents a management system approach to 
emergency preparedness, in 2009. The ASIS approach, which also encompasses 
humanitarian disaster response, was in line with the International Standards 
Organization (ISO) methodology and was regarded as ideal for the integration of all 
elements of emergency management within the Secretariat. As indicated in 
paragraph 10 of the report, the implementation of the system involves five 
consecutive steps: (a) policy establishment, (b) planning, (c) implementation, 
(d) evaluation and (e) management review.  

7. In his report, the Secretary-General indicates that the senior emergency policy 
team, which is responsible for emergency management policy decisions, initiated 
the five-step cycle by approving, in June 2010, an organizational resilience 
management system policy and the development of a pilot system focused on United 
Nations Headquarters in New York. A development group was established to 
elaborate the system (A/66/516, para. 12). The Advisory Committee was informed 
that the development group brought together representatives of various Secretariat 
departments, as well as of the agencies, funds and programmes, and was led by the 
Business Continuity Management Unit of the Department of Management. The 
group was responsible for implementing the pilot project at Headquarters. 

8. As indicated in paragraphs 13 and 14 of the report, the development group 
conducted the planning and implementation steps of the five-step cycle, which 
consisted of establishing the objectives of the organizational resilience management 
system, conducting a risk and impact assessment, analysing priority risks and 
deriving related risk management actions. The group also assigned roles and 
responsibilities and drew up a maintenance, evaluation and review programme for 
2011-2012. Subsequently, in November 2010, the senior emergency policy team 
conducted the fifth and final step of the cycle when it reviewed the organizational 
resilience management system and endorsed it as the emergency management 
framework for the United Nations. The Advisory Committee notes from paragraph 
15 of the report that, in parallel, a pilot project for the implementation of the system 
in field locations was conducted by the Department of Political Affairs, the 
Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Field Support in 
close coordination with the Department of Management. A training course for 
22 field staff from 15 missions was conducted in April 2011. 

9. The roles and responsibilities of the various departments and offices in the 
development and implementation of the organizational resilience management 
system are described in section IV of the report of the Secretary-General and can be 
summarized as follows: 

 (a) Department of Management: serves as the lead department for the system 
and is responsible for developing, coordinating and integrating policy, planning, 
implementation and review procedures and processes. It is also responsible for 
providing implementation assistance to other Secretariat departments and offices in 
New York, as well as offices away from Headquarters and regional commissions. 
Upon request, the Department will provide implementation assistance to field 
operations; 

 (b) Business Continuity Management Unit, Office of Central Support 
Services: responsible for providing guidance and hands-on support for the business 



A/66/7/Add.10  
 

11-58716 4 
 

continuity planning process at Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters and 
the regional commissions; 

 (c) Emergency Preparedness and Support Team, Office of Human Resources 
Management: charged with establishing human resources management mechanisms 
in the event of emergencies involving United Nations staff members. The Team’s 
role is to coordinate, enable and guide the various entities of the United Nations 
system on all matters relating to emergency preparedness and support prior to, 
during and after a crisis. It also serves as the communications hub for the 
Organization on all issues relating to staff and their dependants and to victims and 
survivors of crisis situations (see also paras. 11-14 below); 

 (d) Medical Services Division, Office of Human Resources Management: 
responsible for providing all United Nations duty stations with policy, guidance, 
support and training on public health emergencies and mass casualty incidents; 

 (e) Department of Safety and Security: oversees the security management 
system, including security planning and its integration into the organizational 
resilience management system. The Division of Headquarters Safety and Security 
Services of the Department also provides crisis planning capabilities and is 
responsible for crisis management plans and security and contingency plans for 
Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters and the regional commissions; 

 (f) Office of Information and Communications Technology: responsible for 
establishing broad disaster recovery principles and developing a related programme 
of work. 

10. Upon request, the Advisory Committee was provided with the following 
diagram showing the relationships between the various actors in the organizational 
resilience management system: 

 



 A/66/7/Add.10
 

5 11-58716 
 

 
Crisis preparedness and support      Crisis response 
 
 
 
             Security 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 SEPT Secretariat support (Department of Management)   SEPT Secretariat support (Department of Management) 
 
 
COG support unit (DSS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  Abbreviations: ASG: Assistant Secretary-General; BCMU: Business Continuity Management Unit; CMSU: Crisis 
Management Support Unit; DFS: Department of Field Support; DM: Department of Management; DPKO: Department of 
Peacekeeping Operations; DSS: Department of Safety and Security; FMS: Facilities Management Service; OHRM: Office of 
Human Resources Management; OICT: Office of Information and Communications Technology; SSS: Security and Safety 
Service; USG: Under-Secretary-General.  

 
 

11. With particular reference to the Emergency Preparedness and Support Team, the 
Advisory Committee recalls that the Team was established in May 2010 pursuant to 
General Assembly resolution 64/260. At that time, the Assembly approved two P-5, 
one P-4, one P-2 and one General Service (Other level) positions funded under 
general temporary assistance. Upon enquiry, the Committee was informed that the P-5 
and P-4 positions had been filled and that the recruitment process for the General 
Service (Other level) position would soon be completed.  

12. The Advisory Committee was further informed that, during the biennium 
2010-2011, the Emergency Preparedness and Support Team had been working to 

Secretary-
General 

Senior Emergency Policy 
Team (SEPT) 

(chaired by Chef de Cabinet, 
composed of USGs, Executive 

Directors and ASGs) 

Business 
Continuity 

Management Unit 

Business Continuity 
Management Unit 

Crisis Operations Group 
(COG) 

(chaired by USG, DSS, composed 
of representatives from all major 

departments, offices and 
organizations) 

Crisis Management 
Support Unit 

Organizational resilience 
management system working 

group 
Chaired by BCMU (business continuity) 
CMSU (crisis management) 
OICT (disaster recovery) 
OHRM (human resources and mass  
   casualty incidents) 
DPKO/DFS 
Agencies, funds and programmes 

Incident Assessment Team
led by CMSU, which coordinates the 

COG crisis management response 
SSS, NY 

OICT 
FMS 

BCMU 
OHRM 

Management and 
critical staff of 

departments and 
organizations 



A/66/7/Add.10  
 

11-58716 6 
 

deliver the outputs identified by the Secretary-General in his initial report on 
emergency preparedness, which include: improved preparedness at duty stations and 
country offices for responding to mass casualty incidents; the development of a 
centralized roster of stress counsellors and regional facilities available for initial 
response; monitoring and provision of support for duty stations in the evaluation and 
testing of their emergency medical preparedness plans; continually updated lists of 
incident survivors and affected family members; reliable availability of information 
and assistance to post-incident focal points for families and surviving victims; 
formalized and comprehensive victim, survivor and family support strategies; 
training and briefing sessions for managers and staff, both at Headquarters and in 
the field, regarding the provision of assistance to survivors and family members in 
the aftermath of natural disasters or malicious acts; and communication tools such 
as e-rooms and websites where survivors and assigned focal points can post 
information and hold discussions (A/64/662, para. 8). 

13. The Advisory Committee notes from paragraph 23 of the report of the 
Secretary-General that the Office of Human Resources Management intends to come 
forward with resource requests, where necessary, in the biennium 2014-2015, 
following a review of the workflow and activities of the Team. Upon enquiry, it was 
clarified to the Committee that the Office of Human Resources Management had 
decided to maintain the current level of resources for the Emergency Preparedness 
and Support Team until full implementation of the organizational resilience 
management system was approved. At that time, following a review of the Team’s 
performance, it was anticipated that its activities for the biennium 2014-2015 would 
be scaled up and that, following a needs assessment, a proposal for resources would 
be submitted in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 
2014-2015. 

14. The Advisory Committee recognizes the need to conduct an assessment 
before requesting further resources for the Emergency Preparedness and 
Support Team. The Committee had expected, however, that the needs 
assessment would have been completed in time to submit the related resource 
requests, if any, to the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, as indicated 
by the Secretary-General in his report on the proposed programme budget for 
the biennium 2012-2013 (see A/66/6 (Sect. 29C), para. 29C.13). The Committee 
recommends that, in order to provide the Assembly with a complete picture of 
the scope of the organizational management system at the earliest possible 
opportunity, information on the outcome of the needs assessment for  
the Emergency Preparedness and Support Team should be included in the 
follow-up report on the emergency management framework that is to be 
submitted to the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session (see para. 15 below). Any 
related resource requirements should then be submitted for consideration in 
the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015.  

15. The Advisory Committee notes from paragraphs 28 to 30 of the report of the 
Secretary-General that experience gained during the inter-agency pandemic 
planning and business continuity planning exercises points to the potential value of 
adopting a common emergency management framework, based on the organizational 
resilience management system, that would cover the whole United Nations system. 
The Secretary-General proposes to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-
seventh session a follow-up report summarizing the progress made in the 
implementation of the organizational resilience management system in the 



 A/66/7/Add.10
 

7 11-58716 
 

Secretariat and introducing a more comprehensive framework, including for United 
Nations agencies, funds and programmes. 

16. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was informed that the specialized 
agencies, funds and programmes regarded emergency planning as a key 
management responsibility and, as such, dedicated resources to early warning and 
contingency planning activities commensurate with their mandates for humanitarian 
response. At the headquarters level, United Nations agencies tended to have core-
funded preparedness units as one component of emergency-focused divisions. The 
role of those units was to mainstream early warning and early action into their 
respective organizations and to support planning activities, particularly in the field. 
The specialized agencies, funds and programmes with predominantly humanitarian 
mandates, such as the World Food Programme and the United Nations Children’s 
Fund (UNICEF), also tended to have emergency preparedness and response officers 
at the regional level, whose primary function was to support emergency 
preparedness activities at country offices. In addition, the activities of the 
Inter-agency Standing Committee Sub-Working Group on Preparedness and 
Contingency Planning served to strengthen collaboration among humanitarian actors 
and support to effective humanitarian response. 

17. The Advisory Committee was also provided, upon request, with information 
on the status of engagement with United Nations agencies, funds and programmes 
regarding the implementation of the organizational resilience management system. 
The Committee was informed that, as the primary resource for technical business 
continuity management knowledge within the United Nations system, the Business 
Continuity Management Unit communicated frequently with the agencies, funds and 
programmes and had contributed to the establishment of an informal network of 
staff working on business continuity and emergency preparedness issues. The Unit 
also provided advice to United Nations system entities on emergency preparedness 
integration, advocating an organizational resilience framework, wherever possible, 
and was in the process of migrating its community of practice to a new social 
network platform that could include the participation of the staff from all United 
Nations agencies, funds and programmes. The Unit had also developed, in 
conjunction with the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, the Department of 
Field Support and the Department of Political Affairs, a methodology for the 
implementation of crisis management and business continuity capabilities in 
peacekeeping operations and special political missions. From the outset, focal points 
from the agencies, funds and programmes had been invited to participate in all 
in-country training sessions in order to ensure a coordinated approach across all 
entities of the United Nations system. 

18. The Advisory Committee was further informed that the Emergency 
Preparedness and Support Team was in discussions with UNICEF, the United 
Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Population Fund and other 
agencies, funds and programmes regarding the development, using the Team’s 
capacity-building initiative and training tools, of a support programme 
encompassing risk-based preparedness and emergency and post-emergency 
response. The Team was developing guidelines for the United Nations system on 
mass casualty incident response and was assisting with the implementation of a 
related training course. In addition, through an inter-agency mechanism, the Team 
was responsible for coordinating the deployment of the United Nations Medical 
Emergency Team, and was also engaged in establishing a roster of stress counsellors 



A/66/7/Add.10  
 

11-58716 8 
 

and regional facilities from entities outside the United Nations system in order to 
plan for surge requirements. The Team also coordinated efforts with other 
Secretariat and inter-agency groups responsible for examining and developing 
policies relating to survivors and family members.  

19. The Advisory Committee notes the efforts made thus far to establish 
inter-agency cooperation mechanisms relating, in particular, to business 
continuity management and emergency preparedness. Given that the General 
Assembly, in its resolution 64/260, requested the Secretary-General to submit a 
comprehensive emergency management framework, the Committee regrets that 
he did not explore the system-wide application of the organizational resilience 
management system in more depth in his report on the emergency management 
framework. The Committee expects that the follow-up report to be submitted to 
the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session will present a full picture of the 
measures taken and envisaged to extend the scope of the organizational 
resilience management system to cover the agencies, funds and programmes of 
the United Nations system, including any financial and administrative 
implications.  
 
 

 III. Practical application of the organizational resilience 
management system and related resource requirements 
 
 

20. The Secretary-General indicates in his report that, as part of the pilot 
implementation of the organizational resilience management system, the risk 
assessment produced by the development group was endorsed by the Secretariat 
crisis management structure (A/66/516, para. 31). On a practical level, the risk 
assessment identified two key management actions that need to be taken in order to 
mitigate risks to the Organization. Those actions are: (a) the continued maintenance 
of the secondary data centre in Piscataway, New Jersey; and (b) the procurement of 
specialized software to enable the ongoing maintenance of the different emergency 
preparedness plans that fall within the framework of the organizational resilience 
management system (A/66/516, para. 32).  
 

  Secondary data centre 
 

21. Background information on the establishment of the secondary data centre and 
the role it has played to date is contained in paragraphs 33 and 34 of the report of 
the Secretary-General. In paragraphs 35 and 36, the Secretary-General describes the 
future role he envisages for the centre and proposes that, once the enterprise-critical 
systems currently hosted at the secondary data centre are migrated to the enterprise 
data centre(s) (see A/66/94 for a more detailed discussion of this proposal), the 
secondary data centre should remain in service to support site-specific applications 
and strengthen organizational resilience at Headquarters. The Secretary-General 
indicates it will take an estimated two years to migrate the current list of enterprise-
critical applications to the enterprise data centre(s). Thereafter, he believes that it 
will be possible to reduce the size and cost of the secondary data centre. Upon 
enquiry, the Committee was informed that, at present, all critical systems operated at 
Headquarters — a total of 13 systems — were backed up at the secondary data 
centre. The establishment of the enterprise data centre(s), if approved, would reduce 
the number of systems requiring back-up at the secondary data centre to those which 



 A/66/7/Add.10
 

9 11-58716 
 

must be hosted locally or close to their users. It was anticipated that seven systems 
would fit those criteria. 

22. The Advisory Committee recalls that, in its resolution 65/259, the General 
Assembly endorsed the request of the Secretary-General to enter into the optional 
30-month lease extension for the secondary data centre facility. The lease extension 
covers the period from 1 January 2012 to 30 June 2014. The total projected resource 
requirements for the Centre’s operational costs for the period of the lease extension 
amount to $5,271,000. As indicated in paragraphs 38 to 44 of the report, funding for 
the establishment of the secondary data centre and its operation until the end of 
2011 has been provided jointly under the budget of the capital master plan and the 
support account for peacekeeping operations. The Secretary-General proposes to 
meet the centre’s operational costs from the regular budget and the support account. 
He also proposes to maintain the current cost-sharing arrangement for the secondary 
data centre, whereby 80 per cent of the costs are met from the regular budget and 
the remaining 20 per cent from the support account on the basis of the proportion of 
the centre’s capacity that is used for non-peacekeeping and peacekeeping 
operations. A breakdown of the requirements by object of expenditure and funding 
source is set out in table 4 of the report of the Secretary-General. 

23. In paragraph 59 (a) of his report, the Secretary-General requests that the 
General Assembly consider providing resources in the amount of $2,898,300 for the 
operation of the secondary data centre for the biennium 2012-2013. In paragraph 60, 
the Secretary-General indicates that those additional resource requirements would 
be considered in accordance with the provisions governing the contingency fund. 
The Advisory Committee recommends acceptance of the proposal of the 
Secretary-General.  
 

  Software for maintenance of emergency preparedness plans and the staff 
accounting system 
 

24. According to the Secretary-General, the lack of an automated system to 
maintain common components of separate preparedness plans, as well as the limited 
scope of the current emergency staff notification system, also present risks for the 
Organization. The Advisory Committee notes that the need for a system to account 
for all staff based in New York in a crisis was identified as a requirement during the 
“lessons learned” review of the Haiti crisis response and from recent events in North 
Africa. In paragraphs 46 to 49 of his report the Secretary-General indicates that, at 
present, the Department of Safety and Security generally relies on broadcast e-mail, 
an automated message on a staff information hotline and a static website to transmit 
crisis information to staff. In order to ensure that all New York-based staff can be 
contacted in the event of an emergency, and while a global solution is being 
considered, the Secretary-General is proposing to expand the current emergency 
staff notification system using the suite of available telecommunications devices, 
including personal mobile phones and e-mail. He is also proposing to procure 
specialized software that will allow for the automated maintenance of all the 
information contained in preparedness plans, including staff contact data.  

25. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was informed that neither the new 
enterprise resource planning system, Umoja, nor the talent management system, 
Inspira, had the capability to provide for the automated maintenance of preparedness 
plans. Consequently, any software system procured to maintain emergency plans 



A/66/7/Add.10  
 

11-58716 10 
 

must be able to interface with relevant Umoja databases in order to provide 
automated access to the most up-to-date information as part of existing corporate 
workflows. 

26. The regular budget resources required for software for 2012-2013 are detailed 
in table 5 of the report of the Secretary-General. In paragraph 59 (b) of that report, 
the Secretary-General requests that the General Assembly consider providing one-
time resources in the amount of $68,000 for contractual services and $95,000 for the 
acquisition of software, as well as recurrent resources in the amount of $80,000 for 
software maintenance and system testing. In paragraph 60, the Secretary-General 
indicates that those additional resource requirements would be considered in 
accordance with the provisions governing the contingency fund. The Advisory 
Committee recommends acceptance of the Secretary-General’s proposal. 

27. The Advisory Committee notes that the proposals outlined in paragraphs 21 to 
26 above are two of a number of proposals requesting a charge against the 
contingency fund that the Secretary-General has made since the submission of his 
proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013. 
 
 

 IV. Request for the establishment of posts for business continuity 
 
 

28. In part VI of his report, the Secretary-General proposes to convert five 
positions currently funded under general temporary assistance — three (1 P-5, 1 P-4 
and 1 General Service) in the Business Continuity Management Unit and a further 
two (1 P-4 and 1 General Service) in the Office of the Chief of Staff of the 
Department of Peacekeeping Operations/Department of Field Support — to 
established posts. In support of his proposal, the Secretary-General asserts that the 
effective maintenance of business continuity programmes and capabilities requires a 
more permanent and dedicated set-up in order to embed business continuity 
management into the culture of the Organization and thereby enhance its resilience.  

29. Referring specifically to the Business Continuity Management Unit, the 
Secretary-General states that, since its establishment, the tasks of the Unit have been 
extended to include the provision of support and guidance regarding the 
implementation of organizational resilience at the United Nations. With regard to 
the conversions requested for the Office of the Chief of Staff of the Department of 
Peacekeeping Operations/Department of Field Support, the Secretary-General 
explains that those Departments have sole responsibility for implementing business 
continuity within their headquarters and field operations. The evolution and proper 
implementation of the organizational resilience management system will require 
greater coordination of emergency preparedness plans, in particular within field 
operations, as well as the development and oversight of related training and exercise 
programmes.  

30. While the Advisory Committee considers that dedicated staff capacity 
might be needed on an ongoing basis to oversee the implementation and 
maintenance of an organizational resilience management system, it is 
nevertheless of the view that it is premature to establish such capacity before 
the full scope of the system, including the resource requirements, is known. The 
Committee therefore recommends against the conversion to established posts of 
the three positions in the Business Continuity Management Unit at this time.  



 A/66/7/Add.10
 

11 11-58716 
 

31. With regard to the two positions in the Office of the Chief of Staff of the 
Department of Peacekeeping Operations/Department of Field Support, the Advisory 
Committee notes that they are currently funded from the support account for 
peacekeeping operations, and that their conversion to established posts is proposed 
effective 1 July 2012. Accordingly, bearing in mind its observations in 
paragraph 30 above and with regard to the action requested in paragraph 61 (f) 
of the Secretary-General’s report, the Committee recommends that the General 
Assembly request the Secretary-General to resubmit his proposal in the 
appropriate context, namely as part of the proposed budget for the support 
account for peacekeeping operations for the financial period from 1 July 2012 
to 30 June 2013.  
 
 

 V. Conclusion 
 
 

32. The action to be taken by the General Assembly in connection with the 
proposed emergency management framework is set out in paragraph 61 of the report 
of the Secretary-General. Bearing in mind its observations and recommendations 
in paragraphs 4, 14, 19, 23, 26, 30 and 31 above, the Advisory Committee 
recommends that the General Assembly: 

 (a) Approve the organizational resilience management system approach 
as the emergency management framework, on the understanding that the 
follow-up report to be submitted to the Assembly at its sixty-seventh session 
will present a complete picture of the scope of the system, as well as the related 
resource requirements; 

 (b) Approve the total estimated cost of the extended lease of the 
secondary data centre in Piscataway, New Jersey, for 30 months beyond  
31 December 2011, as endorsed by the Committee in its report on information 
and communications technology (A/65/576), pending the further work required 
before the implementation of the proposed plan and without prejudice to the 
outcome of the Committee’s consideration of future reports on the issue; 

 (c) Appropriate a total amount of $3,141,300 under the proposed 
programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013, comprising increases under 
section 29D, Office of Central Support Services ($243,000), and section 30, 
Office of Information and Communications Technology ($2,898,300), with the 
provision representing a charge against the contingency fund; 

 (d) Note that the regular budget portion of the future remaining 
requirements of the secondary data centre for the period from 1 January to  
30 June 2014, amounting to $741,000, will be included in the proposed 
programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015; 

 (e) Note that, pursuant to resolution 64/228, an amount of $941,600 for the 
secondary data centre has been approved under the support account for 
peacekeeping operations for the financial period from 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012; 

 (f) Note that future requirements for the secondary data centre in the 
estimated amounts of $362,200 and $370,500 will be included in the 
requirements for the support account for peacekeeping operations for the 
financial periods from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013 and from 1 July 2013 to  
30 June 2014, respectively. 


