
 United Nations  A/66/94

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
22 June 2011 
 
Original: English 

 

11-41011 (E)    030811     
*1141011*   

Sixty-sixth session 
Item 135 of the preliminary list* 
Proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013 

 
 
 

  Enterprise information and communications technology 
initiatives for the United Nations Secretariat  
 
 

  Report of the Secretary-General  
 
 
 

 Summary 
 The present report, prepared pursuant to General Assembly resolution 65/259, 
provides revised proposals for the projects outlined in the report of the Secretary-
General on the status of implementation of the information and communications 
technology strategy for the United Nations Secretariat (A/65/491). In addition, it 
responds to the requests made by the Assembly in paragraphs 125 and 126 of its 
resolution 64/243 that the Secretary-General continue to implement enterprise 
content management and customer relationship management systems in the context 
of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013. 

 Pursuant to General Assembly resolutions 63/262, 63/269 and 64/243, the 
present report contains information on the development of a unified information and 
communications technology (ICT) disaster recovery plan and business continuity 
approach, while leveraging enterprise data centres. In particular, information is 
provided on four revised cross-cutting, Organization-wide initiatives that will 
address critical institutional needs and improve the effective and efficient delivery of 
the Secretariat’s ICT programmes. The four initiatives are: 

 (a) Improve enterprise ICT management; 

 (b) Leverage knowledge through ICT; 

 (c) Enhance ICT service delivery; 

 (d) Create a resilient ICT infrastructure. 

 
 

 * A/66/50. 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 2 
 

 The implementation of the proposals set forth in the present report will help 
overcome the challenges of continued fragmentation of ICT capacities and resources, 
the high cost of operations and the difficulties in providing effective solutions to 
enable the Organization to achieve its mission. Once the initiatives have been 
implemented, all stakeholders in the Secretariat (ICT governance bodies, the Office 
of Information and Communications Technology, departments, offices, regional 
commissions, field missions and other units) will work closely to achieve the 
intended goals. Together, these initiatives will provide the Organization with 
overarching ICT management capabilities and an efficient and resilient infrastructure 
that will allow the implementation of strategic programmes and improvements across 
the Organization in areas such as knowledge management and service delivery. 

 
 
 
 

Contents 
 Page

I. Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

II. Proposals for enterprise information and communications technology initiatives . . . . . . . . . . . 5

A. Improve enterprise information and communications technology management . . . . . . . . 5

B. Leverage knowledge through information and communications technology . . . . . . . . . . . 20

C. Enhance information and communications technology service delivery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

D. Create a resilient information and communications technology infrastructure . . . . . . . . . 42

E. Risk management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52

III. Summary of resource requirements and actions to be taken by the General Assembly . . . . . . . 53

A. Summary of resource requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

B. Actions to be taken by the General Assembly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55

 Annexes 

I. Mandate of the Office of Information and Communications Technology and resource levels . 57

II. Proposed structure of the Office of Information and Communications Technology for the 
biennium 2012-2013 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59

III. Conditions that need to be in place for the benefits to be realized . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

IV. Quantitative benefits analyses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61

 
 



 A/66/94
 

3 11-41011 
 

 I. Introduction  
 
 

1. In its resolution 63/262, the General Assembly recognized the strategic 
importance of information and communications technology (ICT) and endorsed the 
overall approach relating to the ICT strategy for the Secretariat. In the same 
resolution, the Assembly decided to establish the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology as an independent organizational unit. The Office was 
expected to provide strong leadership for the development and implementation of 
Organization-wide ICT programmes that would effectively support the Secretariat’s 
mission and its global operations. 

2. The Secretary-General, in his report on the status of implementation of the ICT 
strategy for the United Nations Secretariat (A/65/491), noted that the Secretariat had 
made significant progress since the strategy had been endorsed (see A/62/793 and 
Corr.1 and A/62/793/Add.1). In the same report, the Secretary-General described the 
findings and recommendations resulting from the Organization-wide review of ICT 
capacities, called the ICT structural review, which showed that the Secretariat’s ICT 
environments were fragmented and non-standard, resulting in lost efficiency and 
effectiveness. The Secretary-General proposed that four projects be undertaken to 
address those issues.  

3. In its resolution 65/259, the General Assembly endorsed the report of the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions (A/65/575) and 
requested the Secretary-General to review the proposals contained in his report 
A/65/491 and to submit new and/or revised proposals to the Assembly in the context 
of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013. The Assembly also 
requested the Secretary-General to report on the progress made in the establishment 
of a secondary enterprise data centre, including, as appropriate, financial resources 
proposed for its implementation, in the context of the proposed programme budget 
for the biennium 2012-2013. 

4. The present report responds to those requests and to previous requests by the 
General Assembly to submit detailed and fully justified proposals for enterprise 
content management and customer relationship management in the context of the 
proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013 (see resolution 64/243). It 
also responds to requests by the Assembly that the United Nations use enterprise 
data centres rather than local data centres and submit a unified disaster recovery and 
business continuity plan, including a permanent solution for Headquarters (see 
resolutions 63/262, 63/269 and 64/243). 

5. In the present report, the Secretary-General proposes a set of four integrated, 
Organization-wide, high-impact enterprise ICT initiatives that are intended to 
alleviate the current issues in the ICT environment and to better meet the needs of 
departments and offices. These initiatives are: “Improve enterprise ICT 
management”, “Leverage knowledge through ICT”, “Enhance ICT service delivery” 
and “Create a resilient ICT infrastructure”. Figure I illustrates the linkage between 
the previous General Assembly resolutions and the proposed initiatives, which are 
expected to bring significant qualitative and quantitative benefits to the 
Organization and to enhance the role of ICT as a strategic enabler for the mandates 
and substantive programmes of the United Nations.  

 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 4 
 

  Figure I  
Linkage between General Assembly resolutions and the enterprise ICT 
initiatives 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

6. Implementation of the proposals set forth in the present report will provide the 
Organization with overarching ICT management capabilities and an infrastructure 
that will make it possible to implement, in a more streamlined and efficient manner, 
strategic programmes and improvements, including the knowledge management and 
service delivery initiatives, that will be required in the future. The risks associated 
with not implementing these initiatives include the continued fragmentation of the 
ICT environment, an increase in the cost of operations and difficulties in providing 
effective solutions for achieving United Nations mandates and better supporting the 
needs of departments and offices. 

7. The Secretariat, in responding to the General Assembly’s request and 
acknowledging the challenging global economic climate and current cost 
containment efforts, has reviewed and revised the proposals presented in previous 
reports and achieved the goal of presenting an integrated set of proposals that will 
achieve a similar impact at a significantly reduced cost. This was achieved by 
leveraging existing efforts and technological tools across the Organization. All the 
initiatives proposed in the present report were developed in consultation and 
collaboration with departments and offices through the ICT governance mechanisms 
and will be deployed through a joint effort of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology and other organizational units.  
 
 

General Assembly 
resolution 63/262 
 
 
 
 
ICT strategy 

General Assembly resolution 
63/269 

Disaster 
recovery

 and business
 continuity

General Assembly resolution 64/243
 
 

Enterprise         Customer 
content       relationship 
management     management 

Enterprise 
data centre 
concept and 
secondary 
data centre 

 
Globalize 
service desks

Approve the 
secondary data 
centre in  
Valencia, Spain 

 
Streamline 
data centres 

 
Rationalize ICT 
organization 

Strengthen the 
Office of 
Information and 
Communications 
Technology  

General Assembly resolution 65/259

Leverage knowledge 
through ICT 
 
Provide an enhanced 
knowledge management 
environment to help the 
Organization carry out its 
mandate effectively 

Enhance ICT service delivery
 
Implement enterprise service 
desks to improve user 
experience and productivity 

Create a resilient ICT infrastructure
 
Improve the Secretariat’s infrastructure to support 
enterprise applications in a more agile and cost-effective 
manner 

Improve enterprise ICT management
 
Improve ICT organization to better support the 
Secretariat’s programmes 



 A/66/94
 

5 11-41011 
 

 II. Proposals for enterprise information and communications 
technology initiatives  
 
 

 A. Improve enterprise information and communications 
technology management  
 
 

  Background  
 

8. An overarching organizational framework that defines how ICT activities are 
carried out throughout the Secretariat is essential to realizing the vision of a strong 
ICT for a better United Nations (see A/62/793 and Corr.1). Effective organizational 
structures and management processes are the blueprint for formal expectations, 
interactions and exchanges among internal stakeholders. 

9. As the United Nations mandate has evolved over the last few decades, so have 
the structures and governance mechanisms in the Secretariat. With the emergence of 
modern technologies, ICT has become core to almost every programme activity and 
a fundamental building block of the Organization.  

10. Over time, fragmented and non-standardized ICT capacities and resources 
have become ingrained in the working culture of the Organization. ICT efforts are 
frequently duplicated throughout the Secretariat. Existing ICT business practices, 
associated inefficiencies and the lack of transparency with regard to ICT capacities 
are a reflection of a decentralized organizational model that has evolved organically 
without strong central leadership.  

11. In his report on investing in ICT (A/62/793), the Secretary-General made the 
case for the centralization of ICT structures and the transition to a federated model 
in which a central ICT unit is responsible for the overall strategy, policy and 
coordination of independent ICT units in departments and offices. The current state 
of ICT and the problems related to the fragmentation of ICT capacities and 
resources revealed by the ICT structural review were presented to the General 
Assembly in the Secretary-General’s report (A/65/491). 

12. The Secretariat is moving towards a federated model of ICT management, 
shifting away from local management procedures and organizational structures 
towards a streamlined approach that takes into account the needs at both the 
Organizational and local levels. While there has been some progress in this area, in 
order to achieve an effective organizational model for ICT it is necessary to 
concurrently streamline local management structures and strengthen enterprise ICT 
functions.  

13. The initiatives proposed in the present report combine two previous 
interrelated proposals, the “Rationalize the ICT organization” project (structural 
review project 3) and the “Strengthen the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology” project (structural review project 4), and lay the 
foundation to improve the ICT organization and improve support to Secretariat 
programmes. At the same time, the two initiatives will rationalize local ICT 
management structures, minimize the existing fragmentation of the Secretariat’s ICT 
environment and create a set of cross-cutting ICT functions that will prevent future 
fragmentation, ultimately enabling the full realization of benefits from ICT 
programmes. 
 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 6 
 

  Objectives  
 

14. The goal of the “Improve enterprise ICT management” initiative is to 
streamline ICT functions and structures both within the Organizational and at local 
levels to better support United Nations programmes. The goal will be achieved by: 

 (a) Aligning ICT solutions with the needs of substantive entities; 

 (b) Creating a performance management framework to measure ICT units 
and resources; 

 (c) Reducing the fragmentation of applications and infrastructures through 
an ICT portfolio management function, strengthened infrastructure capacity and 
enhanced capacity in the enterprise application development areas; 

 (d) Developing an enterprise architecture framework that aligns ICT 
solutions with business needs; 

 (e) Enhancing the capacity for the development of enterprise ICT policies 
and strategies; 

 (f) Strengthening the security management function in the Secretariat; 

 (g) Modernizing and harmonizing ICT functions, jobs and career paths in 
collaboration with the Office of Human Resources Management; 

 (h) Defining a framework for ICT activities by creating policies on where 
ICT activities should be carried out; 

 (i) Establishing and maintaining a central repository of ICT capacities; 

 (j) Instituting transparency and optimizing the allocation of ICT resources. 

15. By the end of the biennium 2012-2013, standards for ICT functions and jobs, 
as well as sourcing rules, will be defined and new ICT career paths will be created 
across the Organization. In close consultation with departments and offices, all ICT 
units in the Secretariat will be reviewed and recommendations will be presented to 
the General Assembly regarding organizational changes in the ICT units. 

16. A management framework for measuring the performance of ICT units and 
resources will be established and made operational Secretariat-wide, along with a 
central repository of ICT personnel. This will enable the Secretariat to accurately 
report to Member States on the utilization of the entirety of its ICT resources. In 
addition, the enterprise architecture framework will be implemented across the 
Secretariat, enabling the Organization to forecast and plan its technology based on 
institutional needs. The application portfolio referred to in the report of the 
Secretary-General (A/65/491) revealed the existence of close to 2,000 applications, 
which will be reduced through sustained coordination of cross-cutting ICT 
functions. Additional reductions in the number of applications will be made through 
Umoja. 

17. By the end of 2015, all proposals on ICT organizational changes that have 
been approved by Member States will be implemented across the Secretariat.  
 
 



 A/66/94
 

7 11-41011 
 

 

Box 1 
Illustrative example: “Improve enterprise ICT management” initiative 

Current problem 

 The Secretariat has 173 distinct job profiles for ICT, far more than 
it needs. The vast number of ICT job profiles complicates recruiting, 
career planning, training and mobility, and inhibits the effective 
allocation of ICT personnel across various ICT functions. Moreover, the 
existing job profiles do not reflect the transformation that has taken place 
in the ICT profession over the past decades. Job profiles for many crucial 
ICT jobs do not currently exist. For example, although an increasing 
number of ICT activities in the Secretariat are being carried out in the 
form of projects, there is no existing job profile for an ICT project 
manager, a post that is crucial for ensuring the delivery of projects on 
time and within budget. 
 

Expected improvements 

 The ICT global staffing model will streamline and consolidate ICT 
job profiles and create ICT career paths that are compatible with the 
Secretariat’s work environment and today’s technological environment. It 
will facilitate staff mobility and allow ICT professionals to advance in 
their careers by helping them identify gaps and pursue training in a wider 
range of standardized, state-of-the-art job categories and competencies. 
Once the global staffing model has been implemented, it will be possible 
to identify and leverage the expertise of staff with certain ICT skills and 
competencies across the Secretariat. In addition, the recent efforts made 
to establish transparency in existing ICT personnel distribution 
procedures will enable the effective allocation of staff across various ICT 
functional areas. 

 
 
 

18. Organizational impact. The benefits of rationalizing the ICT organization and 
strengthening the enterprise ICT management functions are summarized below. 
 

  Qualitative benefits 
 

19. The “Improve enterprise ICT management” initiative will provide the 
following qualitative benefits to the Organization: 

 (a) Increased transparency with regard to ICT capacities and resources 
and the cost of ICT services. A global ICT human resources database will be 
developed to provide data on the distribution of ICT personnel and establish a 
baseline that can be used to properly align the planning, budgeting, forecasting and 
reporting processes of ICT services. Having an overview of ICT personnel across 
the Secretariat is essential for the strategic allocation of resources to priority 
projects and the efficient utilization of staff. In addition, the initiative seeks to 
establish ICT functions that will ensure the transparency of ICT activities across the 
Secretariat and global ICT human resources capacities and will define and track 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 8 
 

metrics that measure ICT unit performance (such as ICT portfolio and performance 
management); 

 (b) Assignment of the United Nations ICT workforce to roles that add 
value. The ICT sourcing strategy that will be developed as part of this initiative will 
define the optimal distribution of ICT resources across the Organization. It will 
rationalize the number of staff and the range of skills needed to carry out ICT 
functions, make it possible to forecast ICT staffing needs and, ultimately, ensure 
that staff competencies are aligned with job requirements and business needs; 

 (c) Improved staff mobility, morale, agility, accountability and talent 
management. A centrally controlled, standardized ICT staffing model and the 
associated ICT career path model will contain standardized ICT functional titles and 
job descriptions for state-of-the-art functions that will enable the Organization to 
pursue a coherent ICT strategy and consistency among ICT activities globally and to 
support staff in acquiring the required competencies, skills and certifications 
necessary to achieve their career goals. The implementation of the ICT staffing 
model will increase the level of professionalism and ensure that appropriate 
certifications needed to perform ICT functions are obtained; 

 (d) Improved quality of ICT services at a lower cost to the Organization. 
The establishment of a number of cross-cutting ICT areas in the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology, including change management, 
portfolio management, enterprise architecture and performance management, will 
improve the coordination of ICT activities among 70 ICT units in the Secretariat, 
enhance compliance with promulgated ICT policies and standards and ensure closer 
alignment between the ICT services available and the needs of the Organization, all 
at a substantially lower cost to the Organization.  
 

  Quantitative benefits  
 

20. It is projected that between 2011 and 2013 the proposals on the consolidation 
of ICT units at the departmental level and on the Secretariat-wide optimized 
distribution of ICT activities will result in a reduction in overall ICT staffing needs. 
ICT posts will be freed up for redeployment as a result of a more efficient 
organizational structure, the elimination of redundant ICT activities and increased 
control over existing activities. Until a review of the ICT units has been completed, 
it will not be possible to provide precise data on the size of the savings that can be 
achieved. The following paragraphs provide an overview of the redeployment 
strategy that will be utilized.  

21. It should be noted that all proposals for staff reductions that may result from 
the initiatives contained in the present document will be prepared in close 
consultation with departments and offices and presented to the General Assembly 
for consideration as part of the normal departmental budget submission process. The 
approved proposals will be implemented in close collaboration with the Office of 
Human Resources Management. 

22. It is anticipated that changes in the ICT management structure and distribution 
of ICT activities across the Secretariat will free up the following posts: 

 (a) Posts at the P-3, P-4 and P-5 levels for middle and lower management 
functions; 



 A/66/94
 

9 11-41011 
 

 (b) Posts in the Professional and General Service categories for providing 
administrative support to decentralized ICT units; 

 (c) Posts in the Professional and General Service categories for application 
development and the maintenance of duplicative ICT solutions; 

 (d) Posts in the Professional and General Service categories for ICT 
functions, including infrastructure-related functions, that will be outsourced. 

23. The above-mentioned posts could be redeployed to perform other functions, as 
follows: 

 (a) Various functions in the ICT and non-ICT area of knowledge 
management; 

 (b) Management functions in areas where the Organization lacks the capacity 
to support substantive programmes on issues such as humanitarian affairs and 
development; 

 (c) Cross-cutting ICT functions in the areas of enterprise architecture, 
portfolio management/capacity planning, strategic planning and performance 
management; 

 (d) ICT functions in the areas of business relationship management, project 
management and business analysis; 

 (e) Administrative functions within the same department. 

24. In his report on human resources management reform, the Secretary-General 
projected that 1.9 per cent of Secretariat staff will retire each year between 2011 and 
2015 (see A/65/305, table 3), which means that during that period a total of 280 staff 
members will retire (56 staff members annually). Such posts, freed up through 
attrition, could be redeployed to different ICT or non-ICT functions according to the 
model summarized in previous paragraphs. 

25. Staff members occupying posts that might be subject to proposed 
redeployments within or across budget sections would be given professional training 
funded through this initiative, depending on the competency and professional 
aspirations of the staff member occupying the post, the needs of the Organization 
and the decision of Member States. It has been estimated that from 2013 to 2015, 
between $500,000 and $1,000,000 annually will be needed for change management-
related activities. 

26. Should staff members occupying posts that are subject to geographic 
redeployment have to relocate, it is expected that such relocation will take place on 
a voluntary basis only. If no other solution is possible, it is expected that the 
affected posts could be earmarked for redeployment after the staff member moves to 
another post or leaves the Organization.  

27. Posts freed up as a result of other strategic initiatives, such as the “Enhance 
ICT service delivery” and “Create resilient ICT infrastructure” initiatives, could be 
redeployed using a similar strategy. 
 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 10 
 

  Implementation plan  
 

  Approach  
 

28. In order to identify areas of the ICT organization that could be rationalized, 
reviews of all Secretariat ICT units will be conducted as part of this initiative. For 
each ICT unit that is reviewed, options for consolidating and/or eliminating the 
duplicative activities of various ICT units will be analysed, taking into account the 
ICT sourcing strategy. Summary recommendations will be made in close 
consultation with departments and offices and presented to Member States for their 
consideration as part of the established budget process.  

29. Simultaneously, a number of cross-cutting enterprise ICT functions will have 
to be established to reduce the fragmentation of the ICT environment. An adequate 
level of resources for those functions, enterprise application development and 
infrastructure consolidation will be essential during the 2012-2013 biennium to 
sustain the implementation of the federated organizational structure and ensure that 
benefits from enterprise ICT initiatives can be realized to their fullest potential.  

30. The Office of Information and Communications Technology was established in 
January 2009, within existing budgetary and staff levels, through the redeployment 
of approved resources for the Information Technology Services Division of the 
Department of Management and the Information and Communications Technology 
Division of the Department of Field Support. At present, resource levels for the 
Office reflect the mandate of the Office’s predecessor, the Information Technology 
Services Division, which was primarily responsible for providing core 
communications, server capacity and applications to United Nations Headquarters, 
as well as wide area network support and limited applications and policy support to 
other entities within the Secretariat. Although the ICT workload has risen 
significantly in recent years, reflecting an annual increase of approximately 25 per 
cent in the demand for such services, there has not been a commensurate increase in 
the number of posts or other resources. Moreover, the mandate of the Office is much 
broader than that of its predecessor, which means that the Office requires a different 
level of resources, staff at different grade levels and the expertise to fulfil its new 
mandate. In particular, a significant resource gap exists for the funding of cross-
cutting functions such as ICT policymaking, architecture and standards setting, as 
well as security and global portfolio management. Annex I to the present report 
contains information on the mandate of the Office and the level of resources 
available to it. 

31. The organizational review of the Office, which began in 2010 as part of the 
structural review and was completed in 2011 as part of the “Rationalize the ICT 
organization” project, was meant to address the lack of capacity in critical areas. As 
a result, it identified a number of positions that could be redeployed within the 
Office to carry out cross-cutting ICT functions. It is proposed that the following 
posts be redeployed within the Office: 

 (a) One P-5 post from application maintenance (Integrated Management 
Information System (IMIS)) towards change management; 

 (b) One P-3 post from accounts management to change management; 

 (c) One P-5 post from application development to ICT strategic planning and 
policy development; 



 A/66/94
 

11 11-41011 
 

 (d) One General Service (Principal level) post from application maintenance 
to ICT portfolio management; 

 (e) Two General Service posts from infrastructure management support to 
internal management functions; 

 (f) One P-2 post from application development to internal management 
functions. 

32. These proposals are a first step and an example of the enterprise-wide 
adjustments that could be made throughout the Organization’s ICT units on the basis 
of the strategy described above. The redeployment of additional Office resources, 
which would strain core services such as network, telephone and e-mail support 
services, is not a prudent option. 

33. The findings of the structural review also revealed that adequate resources 
dedicated to cross-cutting ICT functions and enterprise application development are 
required in order to implement an efficient and effective ICT strategy and operations 
across the Secretariat and enable the Office to adequately support the Secretariat. 
Those functions would ensure that benefits from enterprise ICT initiatives can be 
realized to their full potential. They will also ensure that the Organization does not 
revert to the level of fragmentation and costly ICT operations currently in place.  

34. Annex I to the present report summarizes 18 different functions performed by 
the Office. Seven of the most critical cross-cutting functions that will enable the 
Secretariat to make progress in implementing its ICT strategy and mitigate security 
risks are currently not appropriately staffed. The following areas in the central ICT 
unit urgently need to be strengthened: 

 (a) Enterprise architecture and standards; 

 (b) Security and risk management; 

 (c) Strategic planning and policy development; 

 (d) ICT portfolio management, including ICT financial management; 

 (e) ICT performance management; 

 (f) Business relationship management; 

 (g) Technology research. 

35. It is therefore proposed that 14 additional posts (2 D-2, 2 P-5, 10 P-4) be 
established to focus on the following cross-cutting functions: 

 (a) Global strategy management (1 D-2). The complexity of the Secretariat 
and its ICT environment requires the establishment of a global strategic 
management function at a senior level in the Office of the Chief Information 
Technology Officer. The Director in this post must have the experience, knowledge 
and authority to drive the implementation of the ICT strategy across the Secretariat. 
By providing authoritative leadership to senior-level stakeholders and ICT 
governance bodies, the incumbent would ensure the convergence of interests in the 
Secretariat with regard to the demand for ICT services. In close consultation with 
the Office, the Director would be responsible for bringing about coherence of 
Organization-wide ICT activities and operations across 70 ICT units, including with 
regard to infrastructure and architecture, applications development, business process 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 12 
 

re-engineering, networks, outsourcing and ICT operations and support. He or she 
would interact with internal and external stakeholders to ensure the effective 
implementation of the ICT strategy and continuous user satisfaction and be 
responsible for determining long-term Organization-wide ICT needs and developing 
the overall strategy for systems development and hardware acquisition and 
integration. The Director would be a member of the executive leadership team of the 
Office of Information and Communications Technology and, as such, would be 
expected to influence strategic decisions of the Organization regarding the use of 
technology; 

 (b) Infrastructure management (1 D-2). With the establishment of 
enterprise data centres, the Secretariat is entering a phase in which its ICT 
infrastructure is becoming global. Efforts are under way to streamline and 
consolidate global infrastructure operations across duty stations. In this 
environment, it is proposed that a senior-level position at the D-2 level be 
established to direct and coordinate the development of the enterprise infrastructure 
and other operations, including global ICT disaster recovery, as well as to lead 
Organization-wide infrastructure harmonization efforts. The Director would also be 
responsible for ensuring the increased availability and reliability of the global ICT 
infrastructure. Ultimately, the incumbent would facilitate the achievement of 
infrastructure efficiencies for the entire United Nations system, as well as increase 
the responsiveness of the Organization to an ever-changing environment; 

 (c) ICT security management (1 P-5). Currently, the Organization is 
exposed to various ICT security risks and cyberattacks and is unable to identify and 
address data security needs across the Organization. It is therefore proposed that an 
ICT security management function at the P-5 level be established to ensure that the 
activities of all the security functions throughout the Secretariat are more efficiently 
coordinated and that activities that contribute to planning, creating and 
implementing ICT security management are aligned with the Organization’s 
strategic goals. In addition, the incumbent would be responsible for ensuring that 
information relating to ICT security is coordinated and communicated among 
affected stakeholders, minimizing the exposure of the Organization to ICT security 
risks and cyberattacks; 

 (d) Enterprise application development for field offices (1 P-5). In order 
to strengthen the Organization’s ability to deliver enterprise applications to the field, 
it is proposed that a post at the P-5 level be established to head the Field Systems 
Service in the Office of Information and Communications Technology, which has 
been operating without the P-5 post of Chief since 1 February 2009, after 10 ICT 
support account posts were transferred from the Information and Communications 
Technology Division of the Department of Field Support to the Office. By 
establishing this post, the Office would strengthen the coordination and management 
capacity for developing and leveraging common solutions that could be 
implemented broadly to meet the needs of staff in the field. The proposed post is 
also absolutely critical for day-to-day operations, including the carrying out of 
assessments of field mission automation needs, programme and budget planning, 
project and staff management, performance monitoring and the management and 
optimization of the portfolio of field applications. The establishment of the P-5 post 
of Chief of the Field Systems Service of the Office would ensure the effective 
delivery of field applications projects in partnership with the Information and 



 A/66/94
 

13 11-41011 
 

Communications Technology Division, in accordance with the ICT strategy of the 
Secretariat; 

 (e) Strategic planning and policy development (1 P-4). In order to ensure 
the alignment of local and enterprise ICT strategies and the consistent 
implementation of the ICT strategy across 70 ICT units in the Secretariat, it is 
proposed that a post at the P-4 level be established to plan, develop and update the 
ICT strategy. The incumbent would be responsible for monitoring and reporting on 
the implementation of the ICT strategy across ICT units; 

 (f) Enterprise architecture (1 P-4). Fragmented and non-standardized ICT 
capacities and resources are leading to the fragmentation of applications and 
infrastructure components, the duplication of work and an increase in associated 
costs for the Organization. Currently, the ICT infrastructure capability of the 
Organization is not able to keep up with changing business needs or to meet the 
ever-increasing number of technology standards. It is therefore proposed that a post 
at the P-4 level be established to provide overall direction and guidance, as well as a 
definition of enterprise architecture that effectively supports the Secretariat’s overall 
vision, including its ICT vision. The incumbent would be responsible for functions 
related to the analysis, design and delivery of ICT solutions that are appropriate for 
the strategies of both substantive and technological areas; 

 (g) Technology research (1 P-4). The lack of a dedicated technology 
research function results in the inability of the Organization to utilize emerging 
technologies and a slower adoption of technologies requested by departments and 
offices; this, in turn, means that opportunities for improving staff productivity and 
organizational effectiveness may be missed. It is therefore proposed that a post at 
the P-4 level be established to track emerging technologies and provide guidance 
and strategic advice on their utilization in the Secretariat. The incumbent would be 
responsible for coordinating Organization-wide technology research activities in 
cooperation with ICT units and assisting in the definition of the architecture and 
technology needs of the Organization based on new and emerging technologies; 

 (h) ICT performance management (1 P-4). As the findings of the structural 
review indicate (see A/65/491), the Organization does not make optimal use of its 
ICT resources (more than 4,000 personnel and over $700 million annually). It is 
currently not possible to adjust the resource levels of ICT units based on achieved 
and planned outputs, as there are no ICT unit performance standards and established 
consolidated reporting mechanisms. Furthermore, the lack of performance metrics 
does not allow the Secretariat to analyse the benefits derived from various enterprise 
initiatives and propose redeployment options to Member States. It is therefore 
proposed that a post at the P-4 level be established to gather Organization-wide 
performance metrics for ICT units and establish appropriate internal and external 
reporting mechanisms; 

 (i) ICT portfolio management (1 P-4). The findings of the structural 
review also demonstrated a lack of transparency in the way in which ICT funds are 
spent. The inventory of ICT capacities that has been assimilated by the structural 
review cannot be maintained over the long term unless appropriate processes and 
systems are established. It is therefore proposed that a post at the P-4 level be 
established to ensure transparency with regard to spending, to enable ICT 
investment proposals to be prioritized across departments and to ensure that 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 14 
 

informed ICT investment decisions are made after adequate budgetary and project 
reviews; 

 (j) Business relationship management (2 P-4). The lack of capacity in the 
business relationship management area causes misalignment between business needs 
and ICT solutions, a lack of responsiveness to pressing substantive needs and the 
inability to reduce the applications portfolio by negotiating the consolidation of 
similar applications across substantive areas. It is therefore proposed that two posts 
at the P-4 level be established to ensure the establishment, management and 
maintenance of strategic relationships with customers throughout the Organization. 
The incumbents would make sure that ICT solutions are aligned with the needs of 
the Organization; 

 (k) Communications (1 P-4). The implementation of the ICT strategy 
creates a tremendous amount of change in the Organization. There is a direct 
relationship between the level of commitment to and acceptance of change within an 
organization and the quality of its communications. Through well-executed 
communications, the Office of Information and Communications Technology would 
be able to demonstrate the impact and value of the ICT strategy across the 
Organization and ensure the acceptance and adoption of ICT solutions related to the 
implementation of the strategy. It is therefore proposed that a post at the P-4 level be 
established to facilitate the change management function. The incumbent would take 
the lead in planning, developing and implementing large, complex communications 
campaigns related to ICT initiatives and the ICT strategy. The incumbent would also 
be responsible for managing the ICT communications strategy for the Secretariat 
and coordinating its implementation, promoting strategic programmes and initiatives 
and providing advice and expertise to ICT programme managers and other ICT staff 
on a range of communications issues, methods and approaches; 

 (l) Human resources and financial management (2 P-4). When it was 
established in 2009, the Office of Information and Communications Technology was 
provided with no additional resources for human resources and financial 
management functions. On an interim basis, the Office borrowed positions from 
operational areas to cover these vital functions. It is therefore proposed that two 
positions at the P-4 level be established to ensure the coordination of human 
resources management programmes and activities and for coordinating the 
preparation of the budget for the support account for peacekeeping operations, the 
programme budget, the strategic framework and the performance reports of the 
Office. 

36. Annex II to the present report contains a detailed proposed organization chart 
of the Office for the biennium 2012-2013.  
 

  Progress to date  
 

37. In section XVII, paragraph 14, of its resolution 65/259, the General Assembly 
authorized the Secretary-General to proceed with the implementation of project 3 
(“Rationalize the ICT organization”) and decided that $1.5 million should be 
provided from within the resources approved for the biennium 2010-2011. In section 
XVII, paragraph 16, of the same resolution, the Assembly decided to approve 
resources equivalent to seven general temporary assistance positions at the P-4 level 
for 2011, of which five were to be funded from within existing resources; additional 
resources equivalent to two positions at the P-4 level were appropriated. Resource 



 A/66/94
 

15 11-41011 
 

requirements continue to be monitored in order to identify the $1.5 million needed 
for the “Rationalize the ICT organization” project and five positions for cross-
cutting ICT functions, as approved by the Assembly in December 2010. 

38. To date, the following activities have been completed: 

 (a) With the participation of ICT governance bodies, including the ICT 
Executive Committee, the ICT Advisory Group and the ICT Management 
Coordination Group, the definition of ICT functions and jobs, as well as ICT 
sourcing rules, have been refined; 

 (b) The criteria and process for departmental review of ICT units have been 
designed and an initial set of data on a number of departments is being collected and 
consolidated; 

 (c) The organizational review of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology has been completed and proposals to rationalize the 
structure and strengthen cross-cutting functions have been included in the present 
report; 

 (d) Work has begun towards achieving Secretariat-wide agreement on ICT 
job descriptions and career paths, through discussions with chiefs of ICT units from 
across the Secretariat; 

 (e) Recruitment is under way for the two general temporary assistance posts 
at the P-4 level that have been funded so far, to be assigned to the functional area of 
strategic planning and policy development. 
 

  Figure II  
Schedule of the “Improve enterprise ICT management” initiative 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

39. As already noted, recommendations for organizational changes to ICT unit 
structures and post redeployments will be prepared in close consultation with 
departments and offices and presented to the General Assembly as part of the 
appropriate budget submissions.  

40. Recommendations on changes to the organizational structure of peacekeeping 
missions will be presented to the General Assembly, as required, as part of the 
peacekeeping budget submissions for 2013-2014 and 2014-2015. 

2014 2015

(e) Strengthen cross-cutting ICT functions (continued from 2011)

(d) Implement changes in departments, offices, regional  
      commissions and offices away from Headquarters

(c) Implement changes in peacekeeping missions

(b) Review the ICT organization (continued from 2011)

(a) Implement the ICT staffing model (continued from 2011)

Key activities 2012 2013



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 16 
 

41. Recommendations on changes to the organizational structure of departments, 
offices and regional commissions will be presented, as required, to the General 
Assembly as part of the proposed programme budget for 2014-2015.  

42. At the same time, efforts will be made to establish the most critical cross-
cutting ICT functions during the biennium 2012-2013.  

43. Any redeployments to cross-cutting functions will be recommended to the 
General Assembly or requested as part of the established budget process during the 
2014-2015 biennium, once the organizational reviews have been completed. 

44. The following key activities will be taken in order to achieve the objectives of 
this initiative (see figure II above): 

 (a) Implement the ICT staffing model. Activities include: implementing 
the ICT global staffing model, standardized functional titles and job descriptions in 
close consultation with the Office of Human Resources Management;  

 (b) Review the ICT organization. All ICT units in the Secretariat will be 
reviewed. Once agreements have been reached with each organizational unit, 
recommendations will be made on structural changes to ICT units, their reporting 
position within departments and offices and a clear division of labour among ICT 
service providers; those recommendations will be presented to the General 
Assembly. The recommendations will be submitted according to the regular budget 
and peacekeeping budget cycles to allow the Assembly to consider the proposals as 
part of the normal budget process. Recommendations will vary by unit, depending 
on whether the activities currently performed by a unit are considered to be ICT 
activities governed by ICT standards, policies and job descriptions and whether 
those activities should be performed on the basis of agreed sourcing rules, taking 
into account the need to balance business unit responsiveness, ICT efficiency and 
organizational risks. At the same time, routine functions will be outsourced in line 
with Assembly resolutions 59/289 and 55/232 and staff will gradually be transferred 
to perform higher value functions; 

 (c) Implement changes in peacekeeping missions. Changes in 
peacekeeping missions will be implemented in two waves, in accordance with the 
peacekeeping budget cycle. An organizational review of “wave one” missions and 
the Department of Field Support will run from July 2011 to mid-2012. Proposals for 
organizational changes will be presented to the General Assembly in the first half of 
2013, at its resumed sixty-sixth session. Following a decision by the Assembly, 
expected in June 2013, the implementation of “wave one” organizational changes 
and associated post redeployments could begin in July 2013. It is estimated that 
between 600 and 700 ICT personnel, including contractors, will be reviewed during 
“wave one” for the peacekeeping and support account cycle. The organizational 
review of “wave two” missions will run from July 2012 to July 2013. Proposals for 
organizational changes will be presented to the General Assembly in the first half of 
2014, at its resumed sixty-seventh session. It is estimated that approximately 2,199 
ICT personnel, including staff and contractors, will be reviewed during “wave two”. 
The implementation of organizational changes and the associated redeployment of 
posts in the remaining missions across the Secretariat could begin in July 2014 and 
might continue until the end of 2015; 

 (d) Implement changes in departments, offices, regional commissions 
and offices away from Headquarters. The changes will be implemented according 



 A/66/94
 

17 11-41011 
 

to the regular budget cycle. All departments, offices and regional commissions will 
be reviewed between January 2011 and June 2012. It is estimated that more than 
1,300 ICT staff, including contractors, will be reviewed during the regular budget 
cycle. This phase of the organizational review will be completed by the middle of 
2012. Departments will submit proposals for organizational changes as part of the 
next regular budget cycle at the end of 2013. Following a decision by the General 
Assembly, expected in December 2013, the implementation of organizational 
changes and associated post redeployments could commence in January 2014; 

 (e) Strengthen cross-cutting ICT functions. In parallel with the 
rationalization of local ICT structures, the cross-cutting enterprise ICT functions 
will be reviewed with a view to prioritizing their strengthening in three phases. 
Phase one, which was completed in 2011, involved the approval by the General 
Assembly of general temporary assistance equivalent to seven posts at the P-4 level, 
to be used for most critical cross-cutting ICT functions. Additional capacity in 
cross-cutting ICT functions will be needed during 2012-2013 and is being requested 
at this time, as described in the above paragraphs. Phase two involves the review by 
the Office of Information and Communications Technology of its own 
organizational structure and the identification of a number of posts suitable for 
redeployment during the biennium 2012-2013 (see para. 31 above). Regarding the 
posts that will be required during the biennium 2014-2015, a proposal will be made 
in phase three for redeployments or for the establishment of new posts, pending the 
results of the organizational reviews of the ICT units.  
 

  Resource requirements 
 

Table 1 
Total resource requirements for the implementation of the “Improve enterprise 
ICT management” initiative 
 

(Thousands of United States dollars) 

Object of expenditure 2012-2013 

Posts 2 883.6 
Other staff costs 1 346.6 
Travel of staff 150.0 
Contractual services 498.0 
General operating expenses 2 973.7 
Furniture and equipment 502.0 

 Total 8 353.9 
 
 

  Resource requirements for the biennium 2012-2013  
 

  Posts  
 

45. The amount of $2,883,600 would cover the salaries ($1,984,600) and common 
staff costs ($899,000) for the establishment of 14 posts (2 D-2, 2 P-5, 10 P-4) to 
carry out the cross-cutting functions set out in paragraph 35 above. 
 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 18 
 

  Other staff costs  
 

46. The amount of $1,346,600 would cover general temporary assistance to carry 
out activities related to project 3 (“Rationalize the ICT organization”), equivalent to 
two posts at the P-5 level, two posts at the P-4 level and one post at the P-3 level for 
12 months each in 2012, and one post at the P-4 level for an additional 6 months in 
2013, to carry out activities and deliverables associated with implementing the ICT 
jobs and functions, associated organizational changes, ICT global staffing model 
and strategic workforce planning framework. The incumbents would be responsible 
for the day-to-day management and reporting of project activities, the establishment 
of stakeholder analyses and engagement plans to prepare for the changes staff will 
face, the performance of organizational risk and readiness assessments for the 
departments that will need to undergo changes, conducting high-level negotiations 
with departments on ICT boundaries and sourcing, drafting job descriptions and 
collaborating with the Office of Human Resources Management in post 
reclassification efforts.  
 

  Travel of staff  
 

47. The amount of $150,000 would cover the cost of official travel of staff for 
data-gathering sessions, meetings and briefings relating to the assessment, analysis 
and design of the project in the most heavily affected departments and offices away 
from Headquarters. 
 

  Contractual services  
 

48. The amount of $498,000 would cover requirements for change management 
for the estimated 5 to 10 per cent of ICT staff that will be redeployed towards 
different job functions. 
 

  General operating expenses  
 

49. The amount of $2,973,700 would cover the rental of premises, minor 
alterations to premises, telephone and facsimile services in connection with the 
establishment of the proposed posts and the continuation of general temporary 
assistance, as follows: two posts at the P-5 level (1 Senior Project Manager and 1 
Change Manager), two posts at the P-4 level (2 Business Analysts with expertise in 
ICT organizational design and workforce management) and one post at the P-3 level 
(1 ICT Human Resources Management Expert). Incumbents of these posts will 
perform activities and produce deliverables associated with implementing the 
definition of ICT functions, associated organizational changes, the ICT global 
staffing model and the strategic workforce planning framework. 
 

  Furniture and equipment  
 

50. The amount of $502,000 would cover the cost of furniture and equipment for 
the proposed additional posts, including office furniture and office automation 
equipment. 
 

  Biennium 2014-2015 and beyond  
 

51. A preliminary cost forecast for the remainder of the project (approximately 
between $1 million and $2 million for the additional ICT staff who will be 



 A/66/94
 

19 11-41011 
 

redeployed towards different functions, excluding the continuation of established 
posts for the cross-cutting functions) has been estimated as accurately as possible. 
However, the forecast will be updated in subsequent progress reports and 
requirements will be dealt with in accordance with established budgetary procedures 
as further details become available. 

52. Table 2 provides a summary of current authorized and proposed post 
requirements, by level and year. 

53. It is proposed that all the new posts mentioned in the present report be 
established on 1 January 2012. In accordance with the recommendation of the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions that information 
on the delayed impact of posts be reflected in any new proposals (see A/62/7, 
para. 20), it is noted that the delayed impact on the budget for the biennium 2014-
2015 of the proposed 14 posts is currently estimated at $2,325,600. 
 

Table 2 
Post requirements for the Office of Information and Communications Technology 

 Temporary postsa  

 

Established 
regular 

budget posts Other assessed Extrabudgetary 
Proposed in this 

reportb  Total 

Category 
2010- 
2011 

2012-
2013

2010-
2011

2012-
2013 

2010-
2011

2012-
2013 

2010- 
2011 

2012- 
2013 

2010-
2011

2012-
2013

Professional and higher 

Assistant Secretary-
General 1 1 — — — — — — 1 1

D-2 1 1 — — — — — 2 1 3

D-1 4 4 — — — — — — 4 4

P-5 13 13 — — — — — 2 13 15

P-4/3 51 51 7 7 1 1 — 10 59 69

P-2/1 7 7 3 3 — — — — 10 10

 Subtotal 77 77 10 10 1 1 — 14 88 102

General Service 

Principal level 11 11 1 1 2 2 — — 14 14

Other level 48 48 1 1 9 9 — — 58 58

 Subtotal 59 59 2 2 11 11 — — 72 72

Other     

Trades and Crafts 1 1 — — — — — — 1 1

 Subtotal 1 1 — — — — — — 1 1

 Total 137 137 12 12 12 12 — 14 161 175
 

 a Three P-4, four P-3, three P-2, one General Service (Principal level) and one General Service (Other level) 
financed from the support account for peacekeeping operations (Other assessed); and one P-4, two General 
Service (Principal level), nine General Service (Other level) posts financed from the telecommunications 
support account (extrabudgetary). 

 b Posts proposed in the present report to be funded through a cost-sharing mechanism. 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 20 
 

 B. Leverage knowledge through information and communications 
technology  
 
 

  Background  
 

54. In today’s increasingly technology-driven global environment information is 
abundant. The impact the United Nations is able to make on the world depends upon 
the knowledge of its staff and the quality of the information it collects, collates and 
publishes. Increased electronic access to information, the evolution of the World 
Wide Web and advanced content management technologies affect the way the 
United Nations works. In order to take advantage of institutional knowledge in this 
changing global environment, a re-evaluation of the Secretariat’s knowledge 
management culture, policies, processes and technology is required.1 

55. The United Nations must effectively capture, retain and share knowledge in 
order to better analyse, synthesize and present information to all stakeholders in a 
timely manner, thus enabling the Organization to respond better to the world’s 
needs. In a number of reports and resolutions, the Secretary-General, the Office of 
Internal Oversight Services and the General Assembly have highlighted the need for 
the Organization to improve knowledge-sharing internally and externally (see 
A/59/79, A/62/793, A/64/477 and E/AC.51/2006/2, as well as Assembly resolutions 
63/100, 63/248 and 63/262). In that regard, the Assembly has, in its resolutions 
63/262 and 64/243, recognized the benefits of the enterprise content management 
system and has requested the Secretary-General to: enhance technology tools for the 
management of content, take advantage of technology advances in the marketplace, 
improve, in a cost-effective manner, the expeditious dissemination of content, 
ensure that all duty stations are given equal treatment in respect of the application of 
modern technologies, and explore best practices and lessons learned. In its 
resolution 64/243, the Assembly requested the Secretary-General to submit a fully 
justified proposal in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 
2012-2013.  

56. A knowledge management road map was developed through a collaboration 
between departments and offices, discussions within the Working Group on 
Knowledge Management and with the assistance of knowledge management experts. 
Through these efforts, it became apparent that the Organization does not fully 
harness the power of knowledge management and technologies, and that there are 
urgent institutional needs for improving knowledge management practices. The 
prevalence of inconsistent knowledge management activities and inconsistent use of 
technological tools continues to impede the Organization’s ability to carry out its 
programmes effectively while needlessly increasing the cost of operations. 

57. Several key challenges to the current knowledge management environment at 
the United Nations will be addressed through the “Leverage knowledge through 
ICT” initiative. These are: 

 (a) The lack of Organization-wide standards for web publishing, which has 
resulted in a confusing navigation scheme and difficult access to information 

__________________ 

 1  In this report, the term “information” refers to the products of the substantive work of the 
United Nations (e.g. documents, images, web pages, video clips, etc.); the term “knowledge” 
refers to ideas or concepts derived from information (e.g. analyses, assessments, decisions, etc.); 
and the term “content” combines both information and knowledge generally. 



 A/66/94
 

21 11-41011 
 

through the Organization’s main web presence (www.un.org) and the many other 
departmental websites. In addition, the Organization’s information governance, 
processes and technology tools are inadequate and have hindered the systematic 
sharing of knowledge across the Organization. Each department and office has its 
own web designers and templates. This increases the time and effort needed to 
navigate and maintain existing websites and to create new websites; 

 (b) Collaboration continues to take place mostly through e-mail, although the 
limited implementation of the online collaboration tool “e-Room” has improved the 
sharing of information among committees and working groups. Most documents are 
approved in an ad hoc manner through e-mail. Even where information-sharing 
workflows do exist, automation is minimal and multiple steps must be carried out 
manually. E-mail serves as the primary repository for many documents and is the 
main distribution method. Sending content by e-mail results in lack of management 
of the content and the proliferation of versions. There is currently no Organization-
wide technological platform for easily locating and connecting with subject-matter 
experts in different areas, nor is there a mechanism to facilitate electronic 
discussions; 

 (c) There is no centralized document repository, hindering the management 
of all types of content produced in the Organization. Security classification and 
access control is limited. A large amount of content is stored on network drives 
where documents are poorly organized and controlled. Other than the Official 
Document System (ODS), there is no authoritative source of electronic content in 
the Organization;  

 (d) As content stored on network drives does not incorporate basic 
taxonomical classification criteria and metadata, it is difficult to search and use the 
content. The search function in ODS has been improved, making it possible to use 
metadata to find documents, which is a best practice. However, repositories such as 
www.un.org do not make use of metadata to facilitate searches. Further, it is not 
possible to perform a search across websites, ODS and e-Room. 

58. The “Leverage knowledge through ICT” initiative will strive to address these 
systemic problems. The initiative will be undertaken by the Office of Information 
and Communications Technology in close collaboration with departments and 
offices.  
 

  Objectives  
 

59. The proposals set forth in the present report are intended to create an 
integrated knowledge management environment in the United Nations Secretariat 
through the achievement of the following objectives: 

 (a) Create enterprise-wide platforms. Centralized, secure, authoritative 
and trusted information resources will be established to support Headquarters, 
offices away from Headquarters, regional commissions, field missions, Member 
States and important United Nations initiatives, such as the Millennium 
Development Goals and climate change initiatives; 

 (b) Improve and enhance analysis and decision-making support 
capabilities. Producing, capturing and sharing knowledge is a central part of the 
work of the United Nations. Processes for collaborative drafting, reviewing and 
approving documents will be developed. Content authoring processes will also be 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 22 
 

enhanced. These improvements will help United Nations knowledge workers to 
analyse issues and make decisions more effectively; 

 (c) Improve information management policies and processes. Global 
policies, standards, records management practices and guidelines that will govern 
the consistent formulation, use and management of knowledge will be agreed upon 
and implemented across the Secretariat; 

 (d) Improve the organization, accessibility and usability of information. 
Departments and offices will be empowered to successfully implement and manage 
their information; 

 (e) Retain institutional knowledge. Capturing and sharing best practices 
and lessons learned will streamline the work of the Secretariat, support communities 
of practice and provide knowledge resources for effectively dealing with global 
initiatives and issues in the future; 

 (f) Facilitate and enhance knowledge sharing and collaboration. 
Collaboration processes, document management practices, websites and social 
media tools will enhance the ability of the Organization’s departments and offices to 
collaborate with each other and with partners outside the United Nations and to 
connect with people, resources and knowledge; 

 (g) Improve the management of websites and their content. Internal and 
external websites will be managed effectively through streamlined web policies, 
effective navigation, the capture of metadata, standardized templates and structured 
workflows for creating and publishing content. 
 

  Organizational impact  
 

60. The full implementation of the “Leverage knowledge through ICT” initiative 
will have a significant impact on the whole Organization. 
 

  Qualitative benefits  
 

61. The “Leverage knowledge through ICT” initiative will also provide the 
following qualitative benefits to the Organization: 

 (a) Enhanced knowledge creation and sharing within the Secretariat. 
This will be achieved by making it easier to access and share information and by 
improving collaboration among United Nations personnel. The initiative will also 
enable greater reusability of information through the use of standardized templates 
and deliverables for common activities and functions. Best practices and lessons 
learned will be applied; 

 (b) Improved ability to respond quickly to crises and a changing global 
environment. This will be achieved by enhancing the means to search, capture, 
reuse, integrate, analyse and communicate information. More accurate and informed 
analyses will lead to better crisis decision-making and improved flexibility in a 
changing environment; 

 (c) Increased accuracy and security of information and better records 
management. This will be achieved by better managing information and by clearly 
defining custodianship, metadata, records management processes, retention 
schedules, information security and audit; 



 A/66/94
 

23 11-41011 
 

 (d) Improved retention of institutional memory and business continuity. 
This will be achieved through the systematic, long-term preservation of the 
Organization’s intellectual assets; 

 (e) Increased visibility of the United Nations. This will be achieved by 
providing better services to Member States and other stakeholders, including 
improved accessibility to up-to-date content, documents, websites and other sources 
related to United Nations activities;  

 (f) The ability to create and use knowledge remotely. This will enable 
United Nations personnel to work more effectively and productively regardless of 
the time and their physical location. Having teams that can access the same 
information at any time and from anywhere will enhance the Organization’s outputs 
and impact. 
 

  Quantitative benefits  
 

62. The exact amount spent on knowledge management activities is currently 
unavailable, but it is estimated to be very large given the extensive fragmentation of 
the content management processes, tools and resources of the Organization. After 
full implementation, it is estimated that the overall savings from this initiative will 
be between $23 million and $28 million on an annual recurring basis (see annex IV). 
Some savings will be achieved as initiatives progress and it is expected that the full 
savings will be realized one year after full implementation. Listed below are the 
estimated savings: 

 (a) Information sharing. The improved availability of knowledge through 
enhanced collaboration and search capabilities will reduce the time needed by staff 
to find information. The ability to review and approve documents through 
collaborative workflows instead of manually or through e-mail will result in more 
effective content management and more efficient processes. Total annual savings are 
estimated at between $9.2 million and $11.2 million; 

 (b) Virtual meetings. The introduction of web-based meetings will yield 
savings in travel and information sharing. Total annual savings are estimated at 
between $3.5 million and $4.3 million; 

 (c) Content and technology optimization. By consolidating applications 
and repositories and by using standardized templates, United Nations personnel will 
need less time to manage applications and develop content. Total annual savings are 
estimated at between $4.7 million and $5.7 million; 

 (d) Reduced printing. Savings can be achieved by using electronic content 
instead of printouts and reducing the amount of space dedicated to filing cabinets 
for storage. Total annual savings are estimated at between $1.4 million and  
$1.8 million; 

 (e) Content organization and access. Improved content classification and 
metadata standards will increase staff productivity by making it easier to locate and 
access information. Total annual savings are estimated at between $4 million and 
$4.9 million. 
 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 24 
 

  Table 3  
Estimated annual recurring benefits by category for the “Leverage knowledge 
through ICT” initiative 

(Millions of United States dollars) 

Functionality Low end of estimate High end of estimate 

Information sharing 9.2 11.2 

Virtual meetings 3.5 4.3 

Content and technology optimization 4.7 5.7 

Reduced printing and storage  1.4 1.8 

Content organization and access 4.0 4.9 

 Total 22.8 27.9 
 
 

  Implementation plan 
 

  Approach 
 

63. The “Leverage knowledge through ICT” initiative strives to implement a set of 
core knowledge management capabilities that must work together in an integrated 
manner. This approach reduces the redundancy of legacy systems and provides a 
common knowledge management platform that will be leveraged and shared by all 
United Nations personnel. Each component of the knowledge management process 
is essential for accomplishing the Organization’s knowledge management goals. 

64. The integrated set of core knowledge management capabilities (see figure III 
below) to be implemented at each duty station includes: collaboration, 
documents/records management, web content management and enterprise search. 
These components must be implemented together in order to improve the ability of 
the Organization to gather, analyse, synthesize and present information throughout 
the entire lifecycle of institutional knowledge and make knowledge more accessible 
to all stakeholders, worldwide. This initiative promotes the development of new 
approaches and skills, including the adoption of Organization-wide knowledge 
management policies, practices and technology tools.  
 

  Figure III 
Components of the “Leverage knowledge through ICT” initiative 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Enables the Organization to build virtual 
partnerships, share knowledge, find experts 
and form communities of practice. Enables 
staff to discover and share knowledge and 
expertise through profiles, blogs, wikis and 
other tools. 

Enables the Organization to improve its 
Internet presence by facilitating the 
configuration, deployment, customization 
and optimization of sites, site collections, 
pages, web parts and documents. 

Enterprise
search 

Enables the Organization to create, use, 
share, retain and dispose of documents and 
other kinds of content in line with 
enterprise policies, standards and 
guidelines. Collaboration 

Documents 
records 
management 

Knowledge 
management 

Web content 
management

Enables the Organization to search and find 
relevant information across multiple 
systems in a more effective way. 

 



 A/66/94
 

25 11-41011 
 

65. The implementation of the “Leverage knowledge through ICT” initiative 
requires the full support of departments and offices. To achieve success and ensure 
the adoption of improved knowledge management policies, processes and 
technology tools, this initiative must be planned and coordinated through well-
organized governance mechanisms. The ICT Executive Committee, the ICT 
Advisory Group, the Working Group on Knowledge Management and managers of 
departments and offices must actively support the initiative by providing guidance 
and incentives to and communicating with United Nations personnel. Furthermore, 
in order to maximize benefits, it is critical that the initiative be seen as an 
enterprise-wide endeavour that enjoys the full endorsement of the Secretary-General 
and Member States. 

66. The “Leverage knowledge through ICT” initiative will ultimately affect the 
entire Secretariat, Member States and other stakeholders. Due to this far-reaching 
impact, prudent change management activities will be included to ensure the 
adoption of new policies, processes and technology tools and minimize the 
disruptions to the Organization during implementation. These activities will include 
just-in-time web-based training, communications campaigns, readiness assessments 
and stakeholder workshops. 
 

  Collaboration 
 

67. The collaboration component of the “Leverage knowledge through ICT” 
initiative will enable and promote transparency and teamwork by connecting United 
Nations personnel located worldwide, thus enhancing their ability to share 
information and work together effectively. In 2008, the first collaboration tool, 
e-Room, was introduced to the Organization as a secure virtual workspace that 
allowed committees, staff and teams to collaborate and share content. This tool is 
currently being used successfully by more than 3,000 users. Building upon this 
success, the goal is to provide even more modern tools, such as “wikis”, “blogs” and 
“tagging”.2 

68. Through the use of these tools, United Nations personnel will be able to 
connect and consult with one another electronically and find staff with the expertise 
and experience required to carry out their work. The use of advanced 
communications and virtual meeting tools has begun on a limited basis in parts of 
the Organization but will be extended to all communities of practice3 and, over the 
next two bienniums, to more organizational units throughout the Secretariat.  
 

__________________ 

 2  “Wikis” provide a collaborative workspace where people contribute directly to content. “Blogs” 
enable individuals to regularly provide commentary or to describe events. “Tagging” allows 
individuals to apply keywords to information they want to access quickly and easily. 

 3  A “community of practice” is a group of people who share an interest, a craft, and/or a 
profession. The group can evolve naturally because of the members’ common interest in a 
particular domain or area, or it can be created specifically with the goal of gaining knowledge 
related to their field. It is through the process of sharing information and experiences that the 
members learn from each other and have the opportunity to develop personally and 
professionally. Communities of practice can exist online, such as within discussion boards and 
newsgroups, or in real life, such as in a lunch room at work, in a field setting, on a factory floor 
or elsewhere. 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 26 
 

 

 Box 2 
 Illustrative example: collaboration 

 

 Current problem 
 

 A staff member working on economic development in Asia needs to 
consult with United Nations experts on environmental issues. The staff 
does not know where to start looking for the experts and how to 
determine whether a person, if found, is an expert or not. 
 

 Expected improvements 
 

 Collaboration tools for networking allow experts to post profiles 
containing links to past experience and publications. The staff member 
can search the community of practice using this tool to find the experts 
and ask them questions, form a new community and include them in a 
project. Once the project is formed, all the members of the network can 
share information easily and efficiently through these tools. 

 
 
 

  Documents/records management 
 

69. The Organization devotes a significant amount of time and resources to 
creating, editing, reviewing, sharing and storing a large volume of documents on a 
daily basis. However, the lack of centralized repositories, common processes and 
standard technology tools in this area creates ineffectiveness and productivity loss. 
The Organization can improve the current conditions through the introduction of 
modern document/records management processes and technology tools.  

70. Much of the foundational work for this component has already begun. On the 
basis of an enterprise content management road map developed in 2009, a standard 
documents/records management system was developed late in 2010. The system is 
designed to provide a centralized, secure and scalable repository for all types of 
United Nations documents (official, unofficial and other), which can be accessed 
and searched by any user with appropriate privileges. Its main functionalities 
include: creating document management workflows; enabling document library 
services such as check-in, check-out and version control; reporting on document 
access records; declaring content as records and managing retention and disposal 
rules and schedules; securing access to documents; and digitizing paper documents. 
The system can also automate cross-cutting content-driven business processes such 
as collaborative authoring, reviewing and approval of official documents. 

71. The project will be implemented over two bienniums (2012-2013 and 2014-
2015) and will include the deployment of key document and records management 
systems, the development of service delivery support and the automation of 
organizational processes. To start, the system will be implemented and the upstream 
process of authoring official documents will be automated in at least one business 
unit in each of the following locations: United Nations Headquarters, offices away 
from Headquarters, the regional commissions and field offices. The Office of 
Information and Communications Technology will provide service support for the 
knowledge management applications and help with digitization efforts at 



 A/66/94
 

27 11-41011 
 

Headquarters and in other duty stations. In addition, ODS will be migrated to the 
system to improve its functionality and reliability.  

72. Once implemented, the system will be one of the most pervasive systems 
utilized in the Organization. All United Nations personnel who create and use 
documents will benefit from the system. Staff members of all categories, grades and 
locations will use the system to capture, manage, find, reuse, retain and disseminate 
relevant documents daily. Member States and other stakeholders will also use the 
system to manage content related to their interactions with the United Nations. 
 

 

 Box 3 
 Illustrative example: documents/records management 

 

 Current problem 
 

 General Assembly documents are authored by departments in an ad 
hoc manner without the use of standard document templates and the 
documents are edited and reviewed by e-mail. Multiple copies are stored 
on the hard drives of local computers and network drives that are hard to 
search, resulting in significant productivity loss and difficulties in 
reusing a document to create other documents. 
 

 Expected improvements 
 

 General Assembly documents are authored using the new 
documents/records management system, which will make it possible for 
documents to be created easily and collaboratively by different staff 
members, using standard formats, easily locatable data, version control 
and automatic workflows, thus enforcing an automatic approval process. 
The content will be stored as a record for institutional memory and will 
be available for reuse in the future. 

 
 
 

  Web content management 
 

73. The web content management component will ultimately organize the United 
Nations internal and external websites into a cohesive global system of knowledge 
portals. While there has been some progress in this area, a weak and fragmented 
governance and operational framework for websites has resulted in the ad hoc 
development of a multitude of incompatible and, in many cases, inadequate web 
content management tools. In turn, this has made it difficult to find information, as 
well as increased costs and security risks. Many departments and offices have 
requested a modern web content management system to meet their website 
management needs, yet the Organization has not been able to provide a robust 
enterprise solution to date. 

74. The web content management project will first create an “iSeek 2.0” (iSeek is 
the Secretariat’s Intranet) that integrates knowledge sharing into a cohesive 
environment, allowing United Nations personnel to work in a more effective and 
efficient manner. The development work will be piloted using selected United 
Nations Internet websites and subsequently applied to the high-impact United 
Nations websites, including www.un.org. Ultimately, the web content management 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 28 
 

system will be based on a global platform built in accordance with appropriate 
governance rules for policies, procedures, guidelines and standards and with support 
services that oversee and streamline the creation of new, high-quality websites that 
are well defined, integrated and properly managed. With well-functioning websites, 
the Organization will be able to effectively communicate and share its substantive 
outputs internally and externally. 
 

 

 Box 4 
 Illustrative example: web content management 

 

 Current problem 
 

 It is very difficult to navigate, access and find information at 
www.un.org. Every departmental website looks different, as the sites are 
developed independently with no consistent brand, look, feel or 
information architecture. 
 

 Expected improvements 
 

 Websites will have a common look and feel because they will be 
built with common templates and a clear workflow for the approval of 
content. Effective governance and associated policies, procedures and 
standards will make the common brand and management of websites 
possible. Maintenance of websites will be easier and allow security of 
information to be effectively managed. 

 
 
 

  Enterprise search 
 

75. Through the enterprise search component, the Organization will index a large 
volume of information and knowledge in various repositories and provide powerful 
search capabilities across these repositories. The enterprise search system will 
facilitate easy and seamless discovery of contextual information about different 
topics across the repositories. Initially, existing document repositories such as 
www.un.org, ODS and iSeek will be made available through this enterprise search 
system. This will be followed by adding the search functionality to 
documents/records management and collaboration environments. As new 
repositories are introduced, they will be included in the enterprise search, ultimately 
resulting in a one-stop search portal for the entire Organization, Member States and 
other stakeholders. 
 



 A/66/94
 

29 11-41011 
 

  Schedule 
 

  Figure IV 
Schedule of the “Leverage knowledge through ICT” initiative 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

76. The four components of the “Leverage knowledge through ICT” initiative will 
be implemented and deployed in all United Nations Secretariat locations over two 
consecutive bienniums (2012-2013 and 2014-2015) through the following key 
activities (see figure IV): 

 (a) Establish enterprise-wide knowledge management infrastructure and 
governance. Activities include: setting up the technical infrastructure in New York 
and at the United Nations Logistics Base (UNLB) at Brindisi, Italy, to support 
collaboration, documents/records management, web content management and 
enterprise search; and developing governance, policies, procedures, roles and 
responsibilities and providing dedicated secretariat support to the Working Group on 
Knowledge Management; 

 (b) Initiate pilot projects on collaboration and documents/records 
management. Activities include: creating pilot projects in consultation with 
relevant departments and offices; enabling collaboration, communities of practice 
and expert locator capabilities; implementing policies, procedures, standards and 
guidelines; expanding deployment to other departments, offices, regional 
commissions, offices away from Headquarters and peacekeeping missions; 
implementing documents/records management projects for authoring official 
documents in at least one department and at each duty station away from 
Headquarters; and establishing service delivery, change management and training 
capabilities; 

 (c) Initiate pilot projects on web content management. Activities include: 
setting up a portal for departments at Headquarters for easy access to applications; 
revamping iSeek; implementing web content management infrastructure; developing 
common web content management templates and migrating some United Nations 
websites; developing web content management governance, policies, procedures, 
roles and responsibilities;   

 (d) Roll out knowledge management activities for up to 10 departments, 
offices away from Headquarters and field missions. Activities include: analysing 
and migrating content; enabling technologies to collaborate; helping with 

Key activities 2012 2013 2014 2015

(a) Establish enterprise-wide knowledge management infrastructure 
and governance 

(b) Initiate global pilot projects on collaboration and documents/ 
records management 

 

(c) Initiate pilot projects on web content management 

(d) Roll out knowledge management activities for up to 10 
departments, offices away from Headquarters and field missions 

(e) Establish enterprise search capabilities 

(f) Roll out and support knowledge management to remaining 
departments, offices away from Headquarters and field missions 

 

(g) Maintain service delivery 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 30 
 

information management, providing training and change management; expanding 
communities of practice and the ability to find experts;  

 (e) Establish enterprise search capabilities. Activities include: completing 
the procurement process to acquire an enterprise search tool; setting up the technical 
infrastructure; and integrating repositories, thus enabling cross-repository searches; 

 (f) Roll out and support knowledge management to remaining 
departments, offices away from Headquarters and field missions. Activities 
include: continuing and expanding the initiative’s activities, making collaboration, 
documents/records management and related knowledge management capabilities 
available to the United Nations Secretariat; 

 (g) Maintain service delivery. Activities include: training, assisting with 
change management, establishing service agreements with client departments and 
offices and related activities to enable a vibrant knowledge management community 
at the United Nations. 
 

  Resource requirements 
 

  Table 4 
Total resource requirements for implementation of the “Leverage knowledge 
through ICT” initiative 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 

Object of expenditure 2012-2013 

Travel of staff 196.0 

Contractual services 10 057.2 

General operating expenses 1 059.6 

Furniture and equipment 176.0 

 Total 11 488.8 
 
 

  Resource requirements for the biennium 2012-2013 
 

77. The various components of the “Leverage knowledge through ICT” initiative 
are to be executed as an integrated programme of work, which is why all the 
estimates shown in this section are consolidated. 
 

  Travel of staff  
 

78. The amount of $196,000 would cover the cost of travel of staff in 2012-2013. 
Since this is a global initiative, project staff will have to travel to United Nations 
operational locations away from Headquarters for workshops, training and 
coordination activities. 
 

  Contractual services 
 

79. The amount of $10,057,200 would cover the cost of the components on 
collaboration, documents/records management, enterprise search and web content 
management in 2012-2013, as follows:  



 A/66/94
 

31 11-41011 
 

 (a) An amount of $3,013,000 would cover the cost of additional software 
licence and maintenance for collaboration tools, web content management tools and 
additional search capability for approximately 1.5 million documents. The tools 
would be acquired incrementally, as the functionality is deployed to the various 
locations and staff members; 

 (b) An amount of $4,755,800 would cover the engagement of contractual 
personnel to carry out activities related to project management and functional work 
such as business process re-engineering, business requirements gathering, 
application development, application integration, business process automation and 
data migration, as well as ongoing service delivery and assistance to the user 
community; 

 (c) An amount of $572,600 would cover the cost of hardware and storage for 
the global infrastructure to support collaboration and web content management; 

 (d) An amount of $1,715,800 would cover the cost of change management 
and services related to the delivery of change management activities in 2012-2013. 
Change management is critical to the creation of a cultural transformation that 
would lead to the acceptance and use of integrated knowledge management tools 
within the Organization. Since these initiatives involve many new concepts, 
capabilities, skills and technologies, staff will need to carry out change management 
activities in order to properly fulfil their duties.  
 

  General operating expenses 
 

80. The amount of $1,059,600 would cover common support costs, including 
rental charges, minor alterations of office space and telephone and facsimile 
services related to the contractor positions requested under this programme. 
 

  Furniture and equipment 
 

81. The amount of $176,000 would cover furniture and equipment requirements 
for the proposed contractor positions, including office furniture and office 
equipment.  
 

  Biennium 2014-2015 and beyond 
 

82. A preliminary cost forecast for the roll-out to the remaining departments, 
offices away from Headquarters and field missions, as well as the maintenance of 
the service delivery, has been estimated at between $8 million and $12 million. 
However, the forecast will be updated in subsequent progress reports in view of 
potential changes in requirements and be included in the relevant proposed 
programme budget submissions as further details become available. 
 
 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 32 
 

 C. Enhance information and communications technology 
service delivery 
 
 

  Background 
 

83. The United Nations Secretariat devotes significant resources to the provision 
of a broad spectrum of ICT services on a daily basis. The nature and complexity of 
these services and the manner in which they are delivered vary widely. They include 
responding to requests for information, repairing photocopiers, fixing computers 
and troubleshooting remote access problems. 

84. Service desks — organizational units that provide services to users — do not 
have standard work methods for keeping records, producing status reports or 
assessing the quality and cost of services, nor do they work in accordance with 
established best practices. In addition, despite the fact that there are at least 131 ICT 
service desks worldwide, support is not provided 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 
Furthermore, the tools to support service desks and workstation operations are 
non-standard and limited in functionality. As a result, the quality and cost- 
effectiveness of service delivery are measured, monitored and delivered in a  
sub-optimal manner. 

85. The critical role of ICT across the Organization and the high cost of related 
support services provide a particularly salient example of the negative impact of a 
fragmented approach to service delivery. Today, ICT is the backbone of the 
operations of the Organization. When a personal computer does not work, the staff 
member cannot work. Network failure can stop large numbers of staff from doing 
their work, thus incurring significant costs to the Organization both financially and 
in terms of the delayed delivery of substantive programmes. 

86. At present, it is difficult to assess the quantity and quality of the service 
delivery processes in the Organization, a fact which keeps the Organization from 
efficiently assigning resources and establishing work units that can address the 
complexity and volume of services needed. In addition, the broad array of services 
requires solutions that are not always easy to access or provide because of the lack 
of standard workstation configurations across the Secretariat. This complexity, 
volume and fragmentation unnecessarily increases the cost of user services. 

87. This report proposes a shift towards an enterprise ICT service model in which 
the common ICT needs of the various organizational units are addressed through 
regional service centres, thus significantly reducing local ICT service capacity at 
duty stations. Regional service centres employing standardized processes and 
technologies will also be capable of addressing service requests in other functional 
areas such as facilities, human resources, procurement and financial services.  

88. To accomplish this objective, it is proposed that the existing enterprise 
customer relationship management system, iNeed, be fully leveraged and that 
enterprise ICT service desks be established to provide more efficient ICT services to 
all users, including staff, delegates and journalists. Furthermore, by leveraging the 
existing enterprise identity management system, iNeed will provide functionality to 
validate the identity of users and their requests, making the Secretariat less 
vulnerable to security problems. By adopting this approach, the Organization will 
realize substantial benefits through improved user satisfaction, cost-effectiveness 
and quality assurance in the delivery of services to users. 



 A/66/94
 

33 11-41011 
 

  Objectives 
 

89. The Office of Information and Communications Technology, with advice from 
the ICT Management Coordination Group4 and key stakeholders from departments 
and offices, has identified the following key objectives for this initiative: 

 (a) Improve the quality, standards, availability and efficiency of ICT services 
across all duty stations by: 

 (i) Consolidating 131 ICT service desk functions into at least three 
enterprise ICT service desks to be located in different places and capable of 
providing services 24 hours a day, 7 days a week; 

 (ii) Providing all Secretariat offices with support for common applications 
such as Umoja, e-mail, Inspira, iNeed and the enterprise identity management 
system; 

 (iii) Continuing to support unique site-specific services locally, with a 
significantly reduced number of local ICT service desk staff; 

 (b) Implement an enterprise ICT global service catalogue that is integrated 
with other administrative service catalogues supported by iNeed; 

 (c) Identify the applications that are required by all users in order to create a 
minimal number of standardized workstation configurations; 

 (d) Implement business intelligence software to enable critical performance 
monitoring and management functions and thus to enable easier review of 
performance and other issues by the governance bodies; 

 (e) Maintain an integrated master project plan that includes timely progress 
reports to ensure transparency with regard to the initiative’s status to all 
stakeholders, including Member States; 

 (f) Continue the selective deployment of iNeed for other administrative 
services areas, such as facilities, financial services (tax, insurance, travel 
reimbursement, benefits etc.) and human resources. 
 

 

Box 5 
Illustrative example: “Enhance ICT service delivery” initiative 

Current problem 

 A staff member at a United Nations duty station has a problem 
printing a financial report that is needed by a high-level official in order 
to make a critical decision. The staff member first asks co-workers if 
they have encountered the problem before, then calls the local ICT 
service desk and is asked to reboot the computer. Unfortunately, this does 
not solve the problem. One hour has passed. The staff member calls the 
service desk again and is provided with the number of an expert. He calls 
the expert but is connected to an answering machine, which is how he 

__________________ 

 4  The ICT Management Coordination Group consists of heads and senior staff of ICT units in 
departments and offices across the Secretariat. The Group functions as a forum for providing 
guidance and sharing views on ICT strategic programmes and other Secretariat-wide activities. 
It meets every four weeks by videoconference and holds two retreats annually. 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 34 
 

finds out that the expert is away on leave for two weeks. The staff 
member calls the service desk again; he is quite irritated since two hours 
have passed and the high-level official is asking for the report 
immediately. In desperation, the staff member tells the high-level official 
about the problem. The official calls the Chief of ICT services asking for 
the problem to be resolved immediately. The Chief calls the head of the 
service desk to get quick action. Three hours have passed. The service 
desk head walks to the support desk and gets one of the experts to call 
the staff member. Fortunately, the expert, knowing that this is an easy 
problem to remedy, calls the staff member and asks him to press 
CTRL+F5. The report is printed. Four hours of the staff member’s time 
have been wasted and, in the meantime, the high-level official has had to 
board a plane without the report. This problem would have been even 
more complicated had it been encountered during a journey or in the 
middle of the night. 
 

Expected improvements 

 A staff member in a duty station is having trouble printing a 
financial report. She calls extension 3333 and is connected to a service 
desk agent, who queries the knowledge base for the printing error and 
tells the staff member to press CTRL+F5. The staff member gets the 
report to the high-level official in five minutes. While on the telephone, 
the agent shows the staff member how to access the online web portal 
with the knowledge base and bookmarks it for her so that in the future 
she can solve such issues on her own. 

 
 
 

  Organizational impact 
 

90. Consolidating, modernizing and standardizing the existing ICT service desks 
and other administrative services will reduce current service delivery disparities and 
costs. An Organization-wide shift towards best practices and common technology 
tools will improve service availability and quality; provide disciplined, repeatable 
methodologies and processes; preserve and expand institutional knowledge; and 
produce savings.  
 

  Qualitative benefits 
 

91. The “Enhance ICT service delivery” initiative will provide the following 
qualitative benefits to the Organization: 

 (a) Agility. By using best practice processes and common technology tools 
in all locations, service desks will be able to quickly and consistently resolve issues. 
In addition, reactive approaches will give way to proactive approaches, making it 
possible for issues like global cybersecurity threats to be identified and solutions to 
be swiftly propagated to other sites; 

 (b) Accessibility. The provision of multilingual support on a 24-hour-a-day, 
7-days-a-week basis will greatly decrease the time needed to resolve problems while 
providing the world-class services that are vital to the Organization’s global 
operations; 



 A/66/94
 

35 11-41011 
 

 (c) Improved processes and operations. iNeed will provide an integrated 
suite of reliable, modern help desk tools that will enable the provision of consistent 
and effective services to users. Any excess staff capacity could be redirected to other 
work within the Organization; 

 (d) Responsiveness. First-call resolution tracking, self-service capabilities, 
speedier resolution and expanded knowledge base tools will dramatically increase 
service desk responsiveness. This improved responsiveness will allow users to 
return more quickly to their normal work;  

 (e) Productivity. Any computer or user downtime results in lost 
productivity. Tracking and reporting on service desk performance and conducting 
analyses on common problems will lead to an increase in service desk quality and 
performance. This will also aid in ensuring the transparency of negotiated service-
level agreements by clearly defining when, where, what and how services are to be 
delivered. In addition, extended service desk availability and a single point of 
contact will provide continuity of services to all users in the Secretariat, at any time, 
from anywhere. 
 

  Quantitative benefits 
 

92. Currently, the Organization spends approximately $135 million annually on 
ICT service desk operations, excluding costs associated with other administrative 
service desks operated in all duty stations, which are not available at present. The 
ICT service desk costs can be further broken down by components, namely, labour 
($95.4 million) and equipment ($39.6 million). The ICT service desk and 
workstation environments are supported by approximately 835 full-time equivalent 
employees (618 staff and 217 contractors) at more than 131 service desks globally. 
After full implementation, the estimated overall savings would be between 
$39.7 million and $59.5 million, on an annually recurring basis. Some savings 
would be achieved as initiatives progress and it is expected that the full savings will 
be realized one year after full implementation (see annex IV). Listed below are the 
projected savings related to the specific functional improvements: 

 (a) Self-service. The introduction of self-service functions that allow users 
to request a service, reset their password and access a searchable knowledge base 
will reduce service desk volume and service agent time by an estimated 25 to 40 per 
cent, yielding savings of between $6.6 million and $9.9 million annually; 

 (b) ICT asset management. Automating the discovery of ICT devices and 
validating the needs for such devices will reduce service desk and workstation 
labour by approximately 10 per cent and provide savings in hardware and software 
by approximately 10 per cent as a result of the ability to leverage the information to 
reduce vendor contracts and licences. In total, the annual savings in this area are 
estimated at between $10.3 million and $15.4 million; 

 (c) Service desk automation. It is estimated that the introduction of 
standard service desk processes and technology tools, as well as automation 
processes for routing requests and real-time viewing of user information, will reduce 
service agent costs by between $1.4 million and $2 million annually; 

 (d) Workstation standards. A reduced set of workstation configurations 
(also called workstation images) will reduce workstation and service desk labour 
costs by 10 per cent each, due to the reduced complexity of workstations and a 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 36 
 

corresponding drop in workstation requests to the service desks. In total, the 
estimated annual savings will be between $7.5 million and $11.3 million; 

 (e) Workstation automation. The introduction of enterprise-wide remote 
control and software distribution tools will provide capabilities for the service 
agents at the regional service desks to quickly restore workstations and provide 
workstation management tools to reduce incidents at individual workstations. This 
will reduce workstation support labour costs by approximately 15 per cent, 
producing estimated annual savings of between $7.4 million and $11.2 million; 

 (f) Local service desk migration. After the regional service centres are 
established in 2012-2013, common service functions will gradually be migrated to 
the regional desks, reducing local labour requirements by approximately 15 per cent 
and local equipment costs by 50 per cent. This will yield estimated annual savings 
of between $6.5 million and $9.8 million; 

 (g) Automation of other administrative services. The Office of 
Information and Communications Technology, the Department of Field Support and 
other ICT units will work closely with departments and offices to identify and 
prioritize key administrative services that could be improved through the adoption 
of the ICT service desk model. While quantitative productivity improvements are 
expected, they cannot be reported until a comprehensive analysis of these services 
has been undertaken. 
 

Table 5 
Estimated annual recurring benefits, by category, for the “Enhance ICT service 
delivery” initiative 

(Millions of United States dollars) 

Functionality Low end of estimate High end of estimate 

Self-service 6.6 9.9 

ICT asset management 10.3 15.4 

Service desk automation 1.4 2.0 

Workstation standards 7.5 11.3 

Workstation automation 7.4 11.2 

Local service desk migration 6.5 9.8 

 Total 39.7 59.6 
 
 

  Implementation plan 
 

  Approach 
 

93. One of the significant revisions made to the project approach since the 
publication of the report of the Secretary-General on the status of implementation of 
the ICT strategy (A/65/491) involved leveraging previous investments and existing 
systems to the maximum extent. As stated above, a key element of the revised 
strategy is to leverage the existing investments in iNeed (a customer relationship 
management application) and identify the authentication capabilities of the 
enterprise identity management system. iNeed will be used in the enterprise ICT 
service desks and local service desks to provide a common tool for handling all 



 A/66/94
 

37 11-41011 
 

service requests. The enterprise identity management system will be used to supply 
a central directory of all workstation users and to authenticate access to appropriate 
services. The implementation approach consists of: 

 (a) Standardizing and reducing desktop images to increase commonality, 
reduce complexity at all locations and facilitate problem diagnosis and support; 

 (b) Implementing standard software distribution and remote access tools; 

 (c) Utilizing the iNeed application in all locations; 

 (d) Using an enterprise knowledge base to provide service desk agents and 
end-users with better, quicker and more accurate information;  

 (e) Optimizing and promoting the use of self-service options to minimize 
delays in reporting problems and status updates; 

 (f) Providing a common telephone extension number (e.g. 3333) for all 
locations instead of the numerous numbers in use at present; 

 (g) Gradually deploying iNeed to selected departments, offices, regional 
commissions and missions. 

94. The initiative will be the first time that a comprehensive ICT service 
management functionality will have been fully implemented on a round-the-clock 
basis, leveraging both iNeed and the enterprise identity management system to 
equip the regional and local service centres. The aim is to incorporate existing and 
planned administrative service functionalities into this approach. As such, and 
subject to the agreement of senior managers of the Secretariat, it is planned that 
regional service centres will provide both ICT and other administrative services in 
the future. 

95. iNeed was deployed in the enterprise data centre established at UNLB in 2010. 
The application will continue to be the standard technology tool to improve and 
manage all types of services throughout the Organization. It is expected that it will 
be the entry point for all service requests in the long term. There will be one 
telephone number or one Internet site that users can use to request any service. The 
system will then route all requests to the appropriate service desks. The full 
deployment of iNeed as the enterprise tool for service desks will begin with ICT 
services first and could be subsequently expanded to include other administrative 
services.  

96. This initiative will comprise at least three regional ICT service desks, for 
example one in the Americas, one in Europe, the Middle East and Africa and one in 
Asia, which will provide services 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to all United 
Nations locations worldwide. The regional service desks, in conjunction with local 
service desks, will resolve all ICT service requests, either by telephone or through 
the iNeed self-service website, and will report back to the user on the status of their 
request. iNeed will record all service calls and the actions taken. Through this 
interaction, the Organization will be able to track and analyse the responsiveness 
and effectiveness of all requests, thus enhancing service workforce management.  

97. The regional ICT service desks will include a reduced set of standard 
workstation configurations. This will streamline and improve incident and problem 
management workflows and tools, thus enabling service agents to respond and 
resolve problems in a timely manner. Standardized workstations will result in 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 38 
 

improved management of hardware and software assets, leverage contracts with 
vendors through economies of scale and enhance ICT system security. 

98. Regional service desks will provide support for all enterprise applications, at 
any location. Common application problems will be handled by the regional service 
centres rather than local service desks, as is the practice today. 

99. iNeed will make use of a user self-service capability that will allow United 
Nations personnel to resolve their problems without the intervention of service 
agents or other technical staff, for example by searching the knowledge base or 
resetting their password by themselves through an easy-to-use tool. This has two 
benefits: users learn to support themselves (as is common today) and the workload 
of service desk agents is decreased. 

100. Another key element of the initiative is to employ an automated ICT asset 
discovery and management capability. This will not only help the agents working on 
service requests and allow greater transparency for reporting and chargeback 
models, but also provide a key input for compliance with the International Public 
Sector Accounting Standards in terms of the inventory and valuation of assets.  

101. It should be noted that, while this initiative will consolidate all ICT service 
desks, it will not replace the ongoing requirement for some local ICT personnel. It is 
a principle of the initiative to pursue an automated approach wherever feasible to 
reduce the dependence on local service requirements while providing the most cost-
effective services. Figure V below provides a visual representation of the approach 
adopted in the context of the “Enterprise ICT Service Desk” initiative. 
 

Figure V 
Visual representation of the “Enterprise ICT Service Desk” initiative 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

  Progress to date: customer relationship management 
 

102. Since the customer relationship management concept was first introduced to 
Member States in 2008, some progress has been made towards its implementation 
using existing resources. iNeed has been deployed in the following departments and 

 

Enterprise and local service desk architecture 

Enterprise ICT 
service desks 

Time zone 1 

Time zone 2 

Time zone 3 

Local office
Local service 
personnel 

Local service 
personnel 

Local service 
personnel 

Local service 
personnel 

Local office 

Field mission

Regional 
service centre

 
 

United Nations 
secure  

network 



 A/66/94
 

39 11-41011 
 

offices at Headquarters: the Office of Information and Communications Technology 
and the Department of Field Support (for ICT service desk ticketing, generic service 
requests and certain manual aspects of ICT asset management); the Department of 
Management (for facilities management and financial information operations); and 
the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs in New York and Geneva, 
UNLB, the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon and the Economic and Social 
Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) (for ICT service desk). Deployment will 
continue in 2011 to include the Accounts Division in the Department of Management, 
facilities management at UNLB, central support services in ESCWA and a self-service 
portal at selected field missions in the Middle East. The initiatives contained in the 
present report, with the added alignment with the “Enterprise ICT service desk” 
initiative, will result in significant progress in 2012-2013 towards the original vision of 
customer relationship management at the Secretariat. It should be noted that sponsorship 
of departments and offices will be secured in 2011 to ensure that the development of 
customer relationship management will meet key service needs in 2012-2013.  
 

  Progress to date: enterprise ICT service desks 
 

103. On the basis of feedback from Member States, the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology has adjusted its approach to align both existing and 
planned initiatives such as Umoja and the global field support strategy to leverage 
existing systems and internal capacities to the fullest extent. Leveraging iNeed has 
significantly reduced the overall implementation cost of the enterprise ICT service 
desks. In addition, the Office has also aligned other existing initiatives to provide 
critical functionality related to security and directory services (enterprise identity 
management system). This will provide better user authentication, which is critical 
for self-service options (such as password reset) and will greatly enhance the speed 
with which requests for services are fulfilled.  
 

  Schedule 
 

104. The timeline for the entire initiative is shown in figure VI. However, it is 
important to note that at this time tasks are being proposed for only 2012 and 2013 
and that the initial phases shown below have been recast into a set of subprojects 
that could be executed within appropriate funding cycles. 
 

Figure VI 
Schedule of the “Enhance ICT service delivery” initiative 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2012 2013 2014 2015

(F) Provide iNeed as a business platform for business purposes (tax, travel, 
accounts) 

(E) Migrate Local ICT Service Desk functions to Enterprise ICT Desks

(D) Implement ICT Service Desk Locations

Key Activities

(C) Design, Test and Implement Service Desk Ticketing & Scheduling, and 
other agent related tools

(A) Design, Test and Implement Workstation Standards (Secretariat-wide)

(B) Design, Test, and Implement Self Service, Knowledge Base, and 
Business Intelligence

Key activities 2012 2013 2014 2015

(a) Design, test and implement workstation standards
(Secretariat-wide) 

(b) Design, test and implement self-service options, a 
knowledge base and business intelligence 

(c) Design, test and implement service desk ticketing and 
scheduling and other agent-related tools 

(d) Establish ICT service desk locations 

 

(e) Migrate local ICT service desk functions to enterprise 
ICT desks 

(f) Provide iNeed as a business platform for business 
purposes (tax, travel, accounts) 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 40 
 

105. The “Enhance ICT service delivery” initiative will be implemented through the 
following key activities (see figure VI above): 

 (a) Design, test and implement workstation standards (Secretariat-
wide). A survey of all duty stations is being carried out in 2011 to provide 
information about the complexity and diversity of the end-user (workstation) 
environment of the Organization. Workstation standards will require all ICT chiefs 
to collaborate in 2011 in order to identify workstation hardware standards, 
customary workstation management tools and a reduced set of common workstation 
software tools such as operating systems, e-mail applications, browsers and 
anti-virus software. Agreement on the tools to be used, an implementation schedule 
and timelines to eliminate unneeded software and hardware contracts will be 
completed in 2012 and 2013; 

 (b) Design, test and implement self-service options, a knowledge base 
and business intelligence. Self-service options will be developed by the iNeed team 
on the basis of specifications provided by departments, offices and ICT service 
providers. In addition, the enterprise identity management system will develop an 
authentication functionality for workstation users that will allow them to reset their 
own passwords. In addition, all of the various types of network directories will be 
combined into one enterprise model. All of these activities are planned for 2012. In 
addition, an analysis of the global service catalogue will be performed in 2011, 
providing key criteria for the development of the request-for-service functionality in 
2012. Existing knowledge bases will be accumulated in 2012 to provide a combined 
database of institutional knowledge about workstations by the end of 2013. This 
knowledge base will be enhanced by subject-matter experts in identified functional 
areas through the end of 2015 to assist in the migration of local ICT service desk 
functions to the enterprise desks; 

 (c) Design, test and implement service desk ticketing and scheduling and 
other agent-related tools. Service desk tools will be developed in iNeed to create, 
assign, track and report on the status of requests, as well as to make it possible to 
effectively and efficiently distribute the workload among service desk agents. In 
addition to the business intelligence tools with performance management 
capabilities, a suite of automated tools will be provided in 2012 in order to provide 
regional service desk locations with that functionality in 2013; 

 (d) Establish ICT service desk locations. As mentioned above, it is 
envisioned that three regional enterprise service desks will be established to 
implement a “follow-the-sun” approach so as to provide service support 24 hours a 
day, 7 days a week. The locations of the regional service desks will be determined 
on the basis of prioritized criteria, which will include communications, labour, 
logistics and time zone considerations. It is expected that this analysis will begin in 
2012, when the locations will be selected, and that the regional service desks will be 
established by mid-2013 and operational by the end of that year; 

 (e) Migrate local ICT service desk functions to enterprise ICT desks. 
While a local presence will still be required for some activities, for example those 
related to site-specific applications and computer repair, it will be smaller once 
some of the functions currently performed locally are migrated to the regional 
service desks, leveraging the tools specified above. Fully trained migration teams 
will interview local service desk personnel late in 2013 to populate the global 



 A/66/94
 

41 11-41011 
 

knowledge base with common local user problems (and solutions). It is expected 
that these migration activities will start in 2014 and continue until the end of 2015; 

 (f) Provide iNeed as a platform for business purposes (tax, travel, 
accounts). While completing a fully functional design for ICT services (through the 
enterprise ICT service desks), the same model could be used for other substantive 
service areas of departments and offices, such as tax, travel and accounts. It will be 
important to secure stakeholder sponsorship within substantive units to provide 
leadership in re-engineering selected substantive functions in 2012-2013. As 
enterprise initiatives like Umoja are implemented in 2014-2015, it will be important 
to ensure that ICT and departmental and office service desks follow a similar 
approach to provide effective, world-class services.  
 

  Resource requirements 
 

Table 6 
Total resource requirements for implementation of the “Enhance ICT service 
delivery” initiative 

(Thousands of United States dollars) 

Object of expenditure 2012-2013 

Travel of staff 165.0 

Contractual services 11 103.5 

General operating expenses 443.3 

Supplies and materials 1 166.1 

Furniture and equipment 274.0 

 Total 13 151.9 
 
 

  Resource requirements for the biennium 2012-2013 
 

106. The “Enhance ICT service delivery” initiative will be executed as an 
integrated programme of work, which is why all the estimates shown in this section 
are consolidated. 
 

  Travel of staff  
 

107. The amount of $165,000 would cover the cost of travel of staff in 2012-2013. 
As this is a global initiative, it will be necessary for project staff to travel to United 
Nations operational locations away from Headquarters for workshops, change 
management and coordination activities. 
 

  Contractual services  
 

108. The amount of $11,103,500 would cover requirements for the following 
activities: 

 (a) An amount of $3,947,300 would cover the costs of software to license 
service desk and workstation toolsets. This software will be acquired in stages, as 
the functionality is deployed to the various locations and staff members; 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 42 
 

 (b) An amount of $7,156,200 would cover the engagement of contractors for 
project management and functional work such as business process re-engineering, 
business requirements gathering, application development, application integration, 
business process automation and data migration activities, as well as ongoing 
service delivery and assistance to the user community. 
 

  General operating expenses  
 

109. The amount of $443,300 would cover common support costs, including rental 
charges, minor alterations of office space and telephone and facsimile services 
related to the contractor positions requested under this programme. 
 

  Supplies and materials  
 

110. The amount of $1,166,100 would cover the costs related to the establishment 
of regional service centres. 
 

  Furniture and equipment  
 

111. The amount of $274,000 would cover the costs of the additional servers 
required for the infrastructure of the service desk software.  
 

  Biennium 2014-2015 and beyond  
 

112. A preliminary cost forecast for the project has been estimated as accurately as 
possible at between $14.9 million and $22.3 million. This includes estimates for 
extending the activities started in 2012-2013, supporting migration teams, travel and 
change management investments in order to ensure successful local ICT service 
desk migration and smooth adoption by substantive end-users. However, the 
forecast will be updated in subsequent progress reports and requirements will be 
dealt with in accordance with established budgetary procedures as further details 
become available. 
 
 

 D. Create a resilient information and communications  
technology infrastructure  
 
 

  Background  
 

113. Over the past decades, the Organization has built and maintained an ICT 
infrastructure and ICT facilities based on the needs of individual duty stations. This 
decentralized approach was consistently favoured and deemed necessary to ensure 
reliable infrastructure operations given that global data communications were not 
dependable. This model is still in use, and has resulted in the existence of at least 34 
data centres and 177 server rooms across the Secretariat. In terms of distribution, 18 
data centres and 63 server rooms are deployed at Headquarters, offices away from 
Headquarters and regional commissions and 16 data centres and 114 server rooms 
are deployed in field missions. 

114. Over the past 10 years, there has been significant progress in facilitating 
interconnectivity among all duty stations through the new generation of 
communication technologies. Data centres, however, continue to operate in 
isolation, focusing primarily on supporting local needs. This modus operandi is 



 A/66/94
 

43 11-41011 
 

prevalent throughout the Organization, in large and small duty stations, including in 
the field. 

115. Resources are dedicated not only to maintaining these duty station-exclusive 
data centres but also to providing separate disaster recovery facilities to back up the 
centres’ information and systems. With the exception of the Department of Field 
Support, which provides disaster recovery facilities at UNLB for all its field 
missions, all other duty stations are individually responsible for their own back-up 
infrastructure. Duty stations that do not have the resources for an adequate disaster 
recovery facility simply have none or rely on other duty stations to handle this 
function in an ad hoc fashion, placing the Organization at risk.  

116. The adoption of an enterprise approach and a shared-services model to support 
all Secretariat duty stations will lead to savings through economies of scale, 
gradually reduce the scope of local data centre facilities and provide disaster 
recovery services to duty stations according to their needs, thereby creating a 
resilient ICT infrastructure.  

117. Duty stations have also taken a similarly decentralized approach to developing, 
implementing and maintaining local software applications. This individual focus 
ultimately comes at a greater cost to the Organization at large, as it requires more 
personnel, servers, storage and back-up (resilience) than would otherwise be 
necessary.  

118. The rationale for continued decentralization is no longer valid. Enterprise 
systems, based on commercially available software, can address most of the needs 
of duty stations. Only in exceptional cases, in other words when highly specialized 
software applications are the only solution possible, should a duty station embark on 
developing infrastructure for a local purpose. 

119. Pursuant to General Assembly resolution 63/269, the Secretariat’s strategy is 
to shift towards the enterprise management of ICT infrastructure. In order to fulfil 
the request of the Assembly, the ICT strategy (see A/65/491) involved the transition 
towards a model consisting of only two enterprise data centres to host enterprise 
systems. Local data centres will continue to exist but their scope will decrease 
significantly as they focus only on systems that, by their nature, cannot be hosted in 
enterprise data centres. 

120. This vision will be achieved by giving the Organization’s data centres a leaner 
and more resilient structure, at two main locations: the enterprise data centre at 
UNLB and the secondary data centre in Valencia, Spain.  
 

  Objectives  
 

121. The Office of Information and Communications Technology has reformulated 
the “Streamline data centres” and “Unified disaster recovery plan and business 
continuity approach” projects into an integrated initiative called “Create a resilient 
ICT infrastructure”. In doing so, it has aligned the streamlining of data centres with 
ICT resilience to more effectively leverage the work that has been completed since 
the previous reports. In addition, requests for additional funding for future phases of 
the initiative will be submitted as part of the appropriate budget cycles of the United 
Nations Secretariat. For some tasks, the scope has been narrowed to Headquarters, 
offices away from Headquarters and regional commissions owing to the progress 
that the Department of Field Support has already made in creating the enterprise 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 44 
 

data centres. Such focus will enable the Office to make significant progress with 
regard to the reformulated approach by pursuing the following key objectives: 

 (a) To implement two enterprise data centres, one at UNLB and one at the 
secondary data centre at Valencia; 

 (b) To host all enterprise applications (Umoja, e-mail, Inspira, iNeed and the 
enterprise identity management system) centrally, in enterprise data centres, thereby 
consolidating the infrastructure and support resources for the applications; 

 (c) To provide enterprise and local data centre monitoring and support 24 
hours a day, 7 days a week from the enterprise data centres while achieving cost 
reductions through economies of scale; 

 (d) To continue to host unique, site-specific applications in local data 
centres; 

 (e) To maintain an integrated master project plan that includes progress 
reports to ensure transparency with regard to the initiative’s status to all 
stakeholders. Advice and direction from existing substantive and ICT governance 
bodies will be sought throughout. 
 

 

 Box 6 
 Illustrative example: “Create a resilient ICT infrastructure” initiative 

 

 Current problem 
 

 Civil unrest is threatening the lives of United Nations staff 
stationed in a war-torn region. For their own safety, most of the staff 
have had to leave the local United Nations office and, in some cases, the 
region. The mission security team is trying to locate all staff to ensure 
their safety and administrative staff are scrambling to save data and set 
up operations elsewhere to quickly aid the citizens and provide 
information to the world about the crisis. It takes days to locate all 
personnel and, unfortunately, there is a risk that most if not all the critical 
data might be lost. It takes weeks to find a new location and set up 
operations again, severely jeopardizing personnel and rendering it 
impossible to report on the status of the crisis. 

  
 Expected improvements 

 

 By strengthening the resilience of the ICT infrastructure 
environment, text messages can be sent to all United Nations staff shortly 
after the crisis starts, providing them with information on where to 
assemble. Messages from staff are received and all staff are accounted 
for within several hours. At the predesignated evacuation site, staff are 
able to access their systems and quickly begin the critical work of swiftly 
reporting on the status of the crisis to Headquarters. 

 
 
 



 A/66/94
 

45 11-41011 
 

  Organizational impact  
 

122. The “Create a resilient ICT infrastructure” initiative will enhance ICT and 
substantive performance by enabling secure and reliable access to data and systems 
throughout the Secretariat, while improving productivity and agility at significantly 
reduced costs. The streamlined infrastructure based on the enterprise data centres 
concept would greatly improve the Organization’s resilience in times of crisis and 
provide a key platform to host enterprise applications in the most efficient way.  

123. Streamlining the Secretariat’s computing infrastructure will not only increase 
operational efficiency; more importantly, it will provide significant benefits to 
departments and offices by providing quicker, easier implementation of new 
enterprise systems and technologies on a common, reliable platform. 
 

  Qualitative benefits  
 

124. The “Create a resilient ICT infrastructure” initiative will provide the following 
qualitative benefits to the Organization: 

 (a) Consistent enterprise server and storage management. Standardizing 
the Organization’s infrastructure will increase data centre performance and 
availability by streamlining support processes and procedures, cross-training 
technicians and increasing the use of systems contracts for capital purchases and 
maintenance across multiple duty stations. This will enhance the Organization’s 
productivity by minimizing the downtime associated with outages; 

 (b) Increased service delivery. Reducing the resources used for routine data 
centre operational tasks and reassigning them to higher-value ICT functions will 
provide greater support for meeting the overall needs of the Organization; 

 (c) Correct operational deficiencies and fewer risks. Augmenting disaster 
recovery capabilities and business resilience through enhanced world-class facilities 
will mitigate risks and properly prepare the ICT infrastructure for all future 
initiatives. It will also ensure that the Organization can continue operating during 
and after crises; 

 (d) Promotion of the sustainable use of ICT by reducing the overall 
carbon footprint. Using fewer physical servers results in less power being 
consumed. 
 

  Quantitative benefits  
 

125. Currently, the Organization spends approximately $104 million on data centres 
annually, including staff ($54.2 million) and equipment ($49.6 million) costs. In 
addition, approximately 552 full-time equivalent personnel are involved. At 
Headquarters, offices away from Headquarters and regional commissions (excluding 
missions), there is an annual cost of $42.2 million, and 248 full-time equivalent 
personnel are involved. After full implementation of the initiative, the overall 
estimated savings would be between $17.9 million and $26.9 million on an annual 
basis. Some savings will be achieved as initiatives progress and it is expected that 
the full savings will be realized one year after full implementation (see annex IV). 

126. The above figures do not include the savings that will be achieved at field 
missions, which will be reported by the Department of Field Support. Consequently, 
the benefits set out in subparagraphs (a) to (c) below pertain only to Headquarters, 
offices away from Headquarters and the regional commissions. Furthermore, the 
figures do not include the estimated gains from avoiding losses to the Organization 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 46 
 

related to data and/or business continuity costs incurred by substantive units that are 
impaired by crises. It is expected that the following savings will result from the 
specific functional improvements proposed under this initiative: 

 (a) E-mail archives. The introduction of software to provide one source for 
all e-mail archives at UNLB will result in less equipment and labour in all duty 
stations. It is estimated that this will yield savings of between $1.3 million and 
$2 million annually; 

 (b) Storage optimization. There are many duplicate files in the terabytes of 
stored documents that the Secretariat produces in the course of its activities. 
Removing duplicates is a critical step that should be taken before backing up data 
for resilience purposes. It is estimated that this will result in savings of between 
$1.3 million and $2 million annually; 

 (c) Configuration of enterprise data centres. The establishment of the 
centres will provide one location for enterprise applications for all duty stations. 
Savings related to local labour and equipment are estimated at between $4.9 million 
and $7.4 million (between $2.8 million and $4.2 million per enterprise application). 
It should be noted that, for the purpose of estimating the benefits presented in the 
present report, only one application (iNeed) was taken into consideration. Greater 
savings will clearly be realized as additional applications are consolidated for 
enterprise use. It should also be noted that the backing up of local copies of IMIS 
data is included in this benefit estimate; 

 (d) Enterprise server and storage tools. A reduced set of server and storage 
management and monitoring tools will decrease server and storage labour costs 
owing to reduced complexity and improved operational efficiency. The overall 
estimated annual savings would be between $5 million and $7.5 million. 
Collaboration between the Office of Information and Communications Technology 
and the Department of Field Support is required in order to ensure that enterprise 
server and storage management tools will be available for all environments; 

 (e) Local server room migration. After the enterprise data centres and the 
local data centres are established in 2012-2013, server rooms in each location will 
be migrated to the centres using a phased approach that will result in increased 
business continuity and savings of between $5.4 million and $8 million annually. It 
is expected that these benefits may not be fully realized until 2016-2017. 
 

  Table 7 
Estimated annually recurring benefits, by category, for the “Create a resilient 
ICT infrastructure” initiative 
(Millions of United States dollars) 

Functionality Low end of estimate High end of estimate 

E-mail archives  1.3  2.0 

Storage optimization  1.3  2.0 

Configuration of enterprise data centres  4.9 7.4 

Enterprise server and storage tools  5.0  7.5 

Local server room migration  5.4  8.0 

 Total  17.9  26.9 
 
 



 A/66/94
 

47 11-41011 
 

  Implementation plan  
 

  Approach 
 

127. One of the significant revisions to the project approach outlined in the report 
of the Secretary-General (A/65/491) is the alignment of internal initiatives to reduce 
the costs of implementation. A key element of the revised strategy is to leverage the 
significant investment in enterprise data centres at UNLB and Valencia to provide a 
resilient platform for the deployment of enterprise applications. It is important to 
note the distinction between the “Streamline data centres” initiative and the “Create 
a resilient ICT infrastructure” initiative (formerly known as the “Unified disaster 
recovery plan and business continuity approach”). The former will seek to 
harmonize all data centre locations to reduce local server rooms and provide an 
enterprise approach to server and storage management, while the latter will leverage 
the streamlined environment to provide an immediate back-up and business 
continuity configuration for the entire Secretariat. The two are related in that 
minimizing the costs of the resilience initiative requires reducing the locations, 
servers and storage. Essentially, it is more difficult to provide and maintain disaster 
recovery capabilities for a large number of sites with varied, diverse configurations. 
Network upgrades and coordination efforts are ongoing at all duty stations to 
prepare for this initiative. The Office of Information and Communications 
Technology and the Department of Field Support collaborated to formulate this 
approach to make the infrastructure ready for the global field support strategy and 
Umoja. Key elements of the implementation approach are: 

 (a) Establishment of the enterprise data centre at UNLB and a mirror 
resilience site in Valencia. Both facilities are the core elements in the overall 
strategy towards Secretariat-wide access to all enterprise applications. Significant 
work and planning is being carried out with the Department of Field Support to 
align the needs of the field with those of the rest of the Secretariat; 

 (b) Conformity of all applications to the architecture, policies and 
procedures of the enterprise and local data centres. The initiative will establish 
policies and procedures for hosting all enterprise applications. A timeline for 
planning and deployment will be formulated taking into account Umoja, Inspira and 
other enterprise applications. In collaboration with departmental stakeholders, local 
applications will be identified and tracked to enable future consolidation, thus 
reducing the associated infrastructure requirements; 

 (c) Standardization of the server and storage environment, including with 
regard to monitoring and management processes and tools for both the enterprise 
and local data centres. This will facilitate better resilience and mobility for staff 
since the skills needed to run the data centres are transferable. Additional key tasks 
are:  

 (i) Virtualization to reduce the number of server room servers, where 
feasible, before the consolidation of local server rooms into one local data 
centre per site; identification of a potential corresponding resilience site; 

 (ii) Reduction of the existing storage space through automated means before 
implementing resilience measures; 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 48 
 

 (iii) Implementation, across all locations, of a multi-tiered storage strategy 
based on an agreed upon time frame, to systematically store information less 
expensively; 

 (iv) Management of small locations remotely by pursuing an automated 
approach wherever feasible; 

 (d) Alignment of deliverables based on lessons learned from previous 
implementation steps and by the funding needs of stakeholders;  

 (e) Utilization of iNeed at all locations for infrastructure work order and 
requests for service transactions. All hosting and storage requests will be managed 
through the appropriate enterprise ICT service desk personnel and routed to the 
appropriate service entity. 

128. Local data centres will have to continue to provide support for unique local 
applications, including building management systems, perimeter security and 
surveillance systems, cashier support systems, local e-mail and related applications 
in locations where the network is slow, local shared drives, directory systems, local 
Intranet and collaboration tools, local communications telephone billing systems, 
network infrastructure to connect to other offices, connection to the Internet and 
buildings, and radio and television production systems.  

129. Towards the end of 2011, the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology will lead the process of collaborating with the ICT Management 
Coordination Group to analyse, select and implement a standardized server and 
storage management toolset for the Secretariat that will be deployed across all duty 
stations (through enterprise and local data centres). This approach will greatly 
enhance organizational resilience throughout the Organization. In the event of a 
catastrophe, the enterprise data centre will act as the crisis mitigation site and 
provide quick recovery to ongoing substantive operations.  

130. As with the approach taken for the “Enterprise ICT service desks” initiative, 
the “Create a resilient ICT infrastructure” initiative was developed on the basis of 
feedback from Member States and key internal stakeholders. The Office of 
Information and Communications Technology has aligned existing and planned 
initiatives to leverage internal capacities fully. Consequently, the original proposed 
cost of the “Streamlining data centres” initiative has been significantly reduced. In 
addition, the Office has increased the Secretariat’s ICT resilience capabilities by 
incorporating critical aspects of the “Unified disaster recovery plan and business 
continuity approach”, including virtualization, storage reduction, e-mail archiving 
and resilience for IMIS. 



 A/66/94
 

49 11-41011 
 

  Figure VII  
Visual representation of the “Create a resilient ICT infrastructure” initiative 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

  Progress to date: “Streamline data centres” 
 

131. Despite limited resources, progress has been made in aligning key internal 
infrastructure projects to provide critical capabilities that have reduced the estimated 
costs related to the “Streamline data centres” initiative. Capital programmes such as 
the capital master plan at Headquarters, which has continued to make improvements 
to UNLB, and the progress achieved in the construction of the secondary data centre 
in Valencia have all been factored into the revised estimate. In addition, modest 
investments in network upgrades are expected in early 2012 to enable high-speed, 
multiple path connections across major duty stations; it is also expected that the 
enterprise data centres will invest in a wide area network replacement technology 
(Multiprotocol Label Switching). This progress and planned investment is critical to 
improving quality and reducing requirements for the “Streamlining data centres” 
initiative, including its resilience. However, because capital investments and 
budgets have been consistently reduced over the last few bienniums, the age and 
capabilities of the current data centre equipment are reaching a critical stage, which 
has heightened the need for immediate action to ensure continued operation. These 
factors were taken into account in the revised approach presented in the present 
report. The proposed investment for 2012-2013, together with the server and storage 
management tools described below, will prepare the environment for the deployment 
of Umoja and other enterprise applications. 
 

  Progress to date: “Increase ICT resilience” 
 

132. The alignment of internal infrastructure initiatives to better leverage internal 
capacities to the fullest extent has significantly lowered the proposed cost of the 
“Increase ICT resilience” initiative (formerly the “Unified disaster recovery plan 
and business continuity approach”). This reduction is due to the approval of the 
mirror site in Valencia, a world class facility, as a key resilience capability for 
UNLB. The site in Valencia will be in operation shortly and at a much lower cost to 
the Secretariat than commercially leased space. The pairing with the “Streamline 
data centres” initiative was natural as the two initiatives are complementary. In close 
conjunction with the Department of Field Support and other duty stations, the Office 

United Nations 
secure networkUnited Nations Logistics Base at 

Brindisi, Italy 

Secondary data 
centre in Valencia, 

Spain 

  

Field mission   

Local office  
Local data centre  

Enterprise and local data centre architecture   

Enterprise 
data centres  

Local office  

Subregional    
office

Local data centre 

Local data centre 
  

Local data centre 
  

United Nations 
Logistics Base at 
Brindisi, Italy 

Secondary data 
centre in Valencia, 
Spain 

UN 
secure 

network
 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 50 
 

of Information and Communications Technology has adjusted the initiative to 
provide full resilience across the Secretariat using the enterprise data centres. This 
will greatly reduce implementation costs while enabling a faster, planned and 
consistent response to any crisis affecting the Organization.  
 

  Schedule  
 

133. The timeline for the entire “Create a resilient ICT infrastructure” initiative is 
shown in figure VIII below. It is important to note, however, that only tasks to be 
carried out in 2012-2013 are being proposed at this time.  
 

  Figure VIII  
Schedule of the “Create a resilient ICT infrastructure” initiative  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

134. The “Create a resilient ICT infrastructure” initiative will be implemented 
through the following key activities (see figure VIII): 

 (a) Implement tools to reduce storage growth and archive e-mails. 
Activities include: implementing enterprise e-mail archival and storage optimization 
(“de-duplication”) technologies to reduce storage and enhance resilience capabilities 
across the Secretariat; 

 (b) Prepare UNLB to host enterprise applications, create local resilience. 
The creation of an enterprise data centre will provide an effective and efficient 
platform to deploy enterprise applications like iNeed, Umoja and Inspira; 

 (c) Prepare the secondary data centre in Valencia, Spain, to act as a 
mirror site for UNLB. Once enterprise applications and ICT resilience have been 
established, it will be critical to have a mirror site to ensure the availability of data 
and resilience for UNLB; 

 (d) Implement enterprise server and storage management tools. This will 
increase efficiency while facilitating staff mobility and organizational resilience; 

 (e) Migrate local server rooms to enterprise or local data centres. While 
a local data centre presence will still be required for unique local applications, a 
smaller footprint will be required once functions have been migrated to the 

(a)  Implement tools to reduce storage growth and archive e-mails

 

(b) Prepare UNLB to host enterprise applications, create local 
resilience 

 
(c)  Prepare the data centre in Valencia, Spain, to act as a mirror 

site for UNLB 

 
(d)  Implement enterprise server and storage management tools 

 

(e)  Migrate local server rooms to enterprise or local data centres 

 

(f)  Harmonize resilience across all data centres 

2012 2013 2014 2015

 

 

 

Key activities 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 A/66/94
 

51 11-41011 
 

enterprise resource centre and by leveraging the tools previously specified have 
been leveraged; 

 (f) Harmonize resilience across all data centres. Upon completion of a 
fully functional design for ICT resilience, additional harmonization of computing 
resources across locations and further application consolidation will provide 
additional benefits to the Secretariat by using the same model for selected common 
applications. This will require extensive departmental involvement and coordination 
and approval by the ICT governance bodies. 
 

  Resource requirements  
 

  Table 8 
Total resource requirements for implementation of the “Create a resilient ICT 
infrastructure” initiative 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 

Object of expenditure 2012-2013 

Other staff costs 511.2 

Contractual services 4 369.5 

Furniture and equipment 4 947.2 

 Total 9 827.9 
 
 

  Resource requirements for the biennium 2012-2013 
 

135. The activities that need to carried out for the “Create a resilient ICT 
infrastructure” initiative are to be executed as an integrated programme of work, 
which is why all the estimates shown in this section are consolidated. 
 

  Other staff costs  
 

136. The amount of $511,200 would cover the engagement of general temporary 
assistance equivalent to one post at the P-5 level to lead efforts to operationalize the 
enterprise data centres at UNLB and Valencia and IMIS disaster recovery initiatives.  
 

  Contractual services  
 

137. The amount of $4,369,500 would cover the activities of e-mail archiving, 
storage reduction, server and storage management tools and creating the enterprise 
data centre in 2012-2013, as follows: 

 (a) An amount of $2,230,200 would cover the costs of software to license 
server and storage management tools. This software will be acquired incrementally 
as the functionality is deployed to various locations and staff members; 

 (b) An amount of $2,139,300 would cover the engagement of contractual 
services for project management and functional work such as technical process 
re-engineering, technical requirements gathering, integration development, 
application integration, server and storage process automation, and data migration 
activities, as well as ongoing server and storage delivery and assistance to the user 
community. 
 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 52 
 

  Furniture and equipment  
 

138. The amount of $4,947,200 would cover the cost of furniture and equipment, 
particularly the infrastructure equipment necessary for the e-mail archival project, 
de-duplication and the set-up of the enterprise servers and storage tools. 
 

  Biennium 2014-2015 and beyond  
 

139. A preliminary cost forecast for the project has been estimated as accurately as 
possible at between $11.6 million and $17.4 million, including the cost of extending 
the activities started in 2012-2013, supporting migration teams, travel and change 
management investments to ensure successful local server room migration and a 
smooth transition to the platform at the enterprise and local data centres by 
departments and offices. However, the forecast will be updated in subsequent 
progress reports and requirements will be dealt with in accordance with established 
budgetary procedures as further details become available. 
 
 

 E.  Risk management  
 
 

  Risk mitigation approach  
 

140. Risk assessment and management are vital steps in ensuring that proper risk 
identification, analysis and mitigation actions are taken into consideration, 
particularly in view of the importance and scope of the four ICT initiatives set out in 
the present report. The Secretariat has made considerable efforts to ensure that risks 
associated with these initiatives have been appropriately considered. 

141. Each initiative has been thoroughly reviewed through the ICT governance 
framework and has complied with a best practice business case and risk mitigation 
methodology that ensures that risks are identified, scored and assessed from a cost-
benefit, project delivery and organizational impact perspective. 

142. Based on a review of the initiatives, the identified risks related to opportunity 
costs and implementation challenges are presented below. 
 

  Opportunity costs  
 

143. If the initiatives are not implemented or if only minimal investment is made, 
ICT costs will continue to rise, potentially outstripping the ability of ICT staff to 
provide basic services throughout the Secretariat and vital solutions in areas of high 
demand such as knowledge management. The fragmentation of management 
practices and technologies will continue, resulting in difficulties for the 
Organization in effectively carrying out its mandates and substantive activities.  

144. As enterprise systems replace local systems, the potential savings will become 
more significant. Not investing in systems and infrastructure will cause the costs of 
local application deployment and related support services to continue to rise. 

145. At present, the Organization wastes valuable time and resources in 
“reinventing the wheel” or failing to access the highest quality expertise available. 
As a result, invention and/or innovation are hindered and the resulting downtime in 
affected services continues to compromise staff effectiveness and the delivery of 
outputs. 
 



 A/66/94
 

53 11-41011 
 

  Implementation challenges  
 

146. In the absence of strong senior management buy-in and commitment, the 
Organization’s ICT capabilities and resources will continue to be carried out in vast 
silos at a significant cost. Therefore, leadership by high-level managers is critical 
for the successful governance and implementation of all initiatives. 

147. The Organization needs to leverage past experiences and reapply them in 
similar situations, thereby enabling continuous improvement. As such, progress on 
all of the initiatives will be reported in a timely manner, using a performance-based 
framework jointly determined by the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology and the ICT governance bodies. As the initiatives are implemented, they 
will elicit feedback and direction from the governance bodies and make meaningful 
adjustments based on their direction and financial requirements. Lessons learned 
will be documented for future use. 

148. A poorly implemented change management and communications strategy 
could compromise the acceptance by end-users, departments and offices of these 
major changes in the mode of operation. Proper change management efforts, 
including communication campaigns, readiness assessments, stakeholder 
management and training for roles, processes and tools that are crucial for the 
success of all initiatives, will be implemented.  

149. Staff responsible for initiative-related functions need to be properly trained to 
provide services related to business and ICT functionality. In addition, if new 
functions are not thoroughly tested to ensure expected utility, users may not fully 
adopt the new functions. All plans related to the implementation of the initiatives 
call for adequate user acceptance testing and the cross-training of local staff. 
 
 

 III.  Summary of resource requirements and actions to be taken 
by the General Assembly  
 
 

 A.  Summary of resource requirements  
 
 

150. As detailed in table 9 below, it is estimated that a total of $42,822,500 (at 
current rates) will be required in the biennium 2012-2013 for the implementation of 
the four enterprise ICT initiatives.  
 

  Table 9  
Summary of net resource requirements, by initiative 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 

Initiative 2012-2013a 

Improve enterprise ICT management 8 353.9 

Leverage knowledge through ICT 11 488.8 

Enhance ICT service delivery 13 151.9 

Create a resilient ICT infrastructure 9 827.9 

 Total 42 822.5 
 
 a Preliminary estimates for 2014-2015 include the following: an additional $1 million-

$2 million (excluding the continuing costs of posts and related common support costs of 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 54 
 

$7 million), for the “Improve enterprise ICT management” initiative; an estimated 
$8 million-$12 million for the “Leverage knowledge through ICT” initiative; an estimated 
$14.9 million-$22.3 million for the “Enhance ICT service delivery” initiative; and an 
estimated $11.6 million-$17.4 million for the “Create a resilient ICT infrastructure” 
initiative. 

 
 

151. It is proposed that the total resource requirements, as shown in tables 9 and 10, 
be financed from among the regular budget, the support account for peacekeeping 
operations and extrabudgetary resources, in the following percentages: 15 per cent 
from the regular budget, 62 per cent from the support account for peacekeeping 
operations and 23 per cent from the special accounts for programme support costs 
(to which overhead income generated by expenditures relating to technical 
cooperation and general trust funds, as well as reimbursement for administrative 
support provided by the Organization to extrabudgetary entities such as the United 
Nations Development Programme and the United Nations Children’s Fund, are 
credited) (see A/65/491, para. 243). Each source of financing (regular budget, 
peacekeeping support account, extrabudgetary) will make a contribution calculated 
on the basis of the established share of the overall resource requirements. 
 

  Table 10 
Summary of net resource requirements, by source of funds (full project cost at 
current rates) 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 

Initiative Regular budget 
Peacekeeping 

support account Extrabudgetary Total

Improve enterprise ICT management 1 253.1 5 179.4 1 921.4 8 353.9

Leverage knowledge through ICT 1 723.3 7 123.1 2 642.4 11 488.8

Enhance ICT service delivery 1 972.8 8 154.2 3 024.9 13 151.9

Create resilient ICT infrastructure 1 474.2 6 093.3 2 260.4 9 827.9

 Total 6 423.4 26 550.0 9 849.1 42 822.5
 
 

  Table 11 
Summary of net resource requirements by source of funds 
(Thousands of United States dollars) 

Source of funds 2012-2013 

Regular budget 6 423.4 

Peacekeeping support account 26 550.0 

Extrabudgetary 9 849.1 

 Total 42 822.5 
 
 



 A/66/94
 

55 11-41011 
 

  Table 12 
Total resource requirements for the implementation of ICT structural  
review projects  
(Thousands of United States dollars) 

Object of expenditure 2012-2013 

Posts 2 883.6 

Other staff costs 1 857.8 

Travel of staff 511.0 

Contractual services 26 028.2 

General operating expenses 4 476.6 

Supplies and materials 1 166.1 

Furniture and equipment 5 899.2 

 Total 42 822.5 
 
 
 

 B.  Actions to be taken by the General Assembly  
 
 

152. The transformational ICT initiatives presented herein will result in 
significant effectiveness and efficiency improvements in the Organization and 
continue the transition towards an Organization-wide coherent approach to 
ICT that is consistent with the expectations of Member States. The reliance on 
enterprise solutions and optimal use of ICT resources will provide significant 
benefits to the Secretariat in meeting its mission and programme goals. Such 
improvement is unattainable if the current situation is maintained. 

153. The General Assembly is requested: 

 (a) To endorse the four initiatives (“Improve ICT enterprise 
management”, “Leverage knowledge through ICT”, “Enhance ICT service 
delivery” and “Create resilient ICT infrastructure”); 

 (b) To note that, should the establishment of 14 posts for the biennium 
2012-2013 be approved, the cost of the delayed impact is estimated at 
$2,325,600; 

 (c) To note also the proposal for the total resource requirements for the 
biennium 2012-2013, which are estimated at $42,822,500, to be distributed as 
follows: 

 (i) Regular budget: an amount of $5,639,100, under section 30, Office of 
Information and Communications Technology, and an amount of 
$784,300, under section 29D, Office of Central Support Services, of the 
proposed programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013; 

 (ii) Support account for peacekeeping operations: 

  a. An amount of $6,637,500, to be financed as an additional 
appropriation from the support account for peacekeeping operations for 
the period from 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012, to meet the requirements 
related to all four initiatives for the biennium 2012-2013, as described in 
the present report; 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 56 
 

  b. Future remaining requirements in an estimated amount of 
$13,275,000 would be considered in subsequent support account for 
peacekeeping operations requirements for the financial period from 1 July 
2012 to 30 June 2013; 

  c. Future remaining requirements in an estimated amount of 
$6,637,500 will be included in subsequent support account for 
peacekeeping operations requirements for the financial period from 1 July 
2013 to 30 June 2014; 

 (iii) Extrabudgetary resources: an estimated amount of $9,849,100 of the 
overall cost of all projects for the biennium 2012-2013 would be financed 
from extrabudgetary resources; 

 (j) To approve the following additional appropriations: 

 (i) An amount of $6,423,400, under the proposed programme budget for 
the biennium 2012-2013, for section 30, Office of Information and 
Communications Technology ($5,639,100), and section 29D, Office of 
Central Support Services ($784,300); 

 (ii) An amount of $6,637,500, under the support account for 
peacekeeping operations for the period 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012. 



 A/66/94
 

57 11-41011 
 

Annex I 
 

  Mandate of the Office of Information and Communications 
Technology and resource levels  
 
 

Mandate from approved ICT strategy (A/62/793) New/existing mandate Resources provided 

Developing the ICT strategy for the Secretariat and 
coordination of its implementation (para. 35 (a)) 

New Limited 

Reviewing budgets from all funding sources for all ICT 
initiatives and operations of the Secretariat (para. 35 (b)) 

New Limited 

Monitoring, measuring and evaluating the performance of 
ICT units against established goals, objectives and budgetary 
targets, utilizing accountability frameworks as appropriate 
(para. 35 (c)) 

New Limited 

Setting the technological direction and architecture for the 
Organization (para. 35 (d)) 

New Limited 

Planning and developing all Organization-wide ICT 
applications, including, inter alia, an enterprise resource 
planning system and other major systems (para. 35 (e)) 

Existing Limited  
(except for 
Umoja) 

Planning and developing the overall infrastructure 
architecture encompassing the communications networks 
and data centres of the Organization (para. 35 (f)) 

Existing Limited 

Using the Organization’s global presence and ICT 
infrastructure to develop and operate Secretariat-wide 
applications and infrastructure in order to maximize benefits 
and cost-effectiveness (para. 35 (g)) 

Existing Limited 

Undertaking, in collaboration with other ICT units, ICT 
research and development activities (para. 35 (h)) 

New Limited 

Overseeing the assessment and management of ICT risks for 
the Organization (para. 35 (i)) 

New Limited 

Developing and maintaining the information security policy 
of the Organization and monitoring compliance across 
operational units (para. 35 (j)) 

Existing Limited 

Managing the implementation of disaster recovery and 
business continuity plans for the Organization (para. 35 (k)) 

Existing Limited 

Coordinating ICT human resources management programme 
and activities, including staff development and mobility of 
all ICT staff in the global Secretariat (para. 35 (l)) 

New None 

Providing business consulting and project management 
methodologies and services to all ICT units (para. 35 (m)) 

New Limited 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 58 
 

Mandate from approved ICT strategy (A/62/793) New/existing mandate Resources provided 

Monitoring, measuring and evaluating the performance and 
strategic alignment of all projects and investment initiatives 
in the ICT project portfolio of the global Secretariat  
(para. 35 (n)) 

New None 

Establishing ICT vendor management policies; reviewing 
and monitoring purchasing and contract renewal activities 
(para. 35 (o)) 

New None 

Implementing quality assurance processes to ensure that all 
policies, processes and standards are in compliance  
(para. 35 (p)) 

New Limited 

Establishing a client services function (para. 42) New Limited 

Perform the Executive Office function of the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology 

New Limited 

 

 

 

 



 A/66/94
 

59 11-41011 
 

Annex II 
 

  Proposed structure of the Office of Information and 
Communications Technology for the biennium 2012-2013* 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

Abbreviations: ASG, Assistant Secretary-General; RB, regular budget; JF, jointly financed (regular budget, support account, 
extrabudgetary); GS, General Service; OL, Other level; PL, Principal level; XB, extrabudgetary; TC, Trades and Crafts;  
SA, special account. 

 a New posts. 
 b Redeployments. 

 

 
 

 * For the current structure of the Office of Information and Communications Technology, see 
A/64/6 (Sect. 29). 

/CITO



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 60 
 

Annex III 
 

  Conditions that need to be in place for the benefits to 
be realized 
 
 

1. It should be noted that all figures presented in the initiative proposals are 
estimates. The benefits are based on assumption that they may change several years 
from the time of writing. In addition, the benefits are calculated on the basis of 
existing data sources that are not always complete or fully reliable, in part because 
the Secretariat does not have the standards, tools and level of automation to provide 
accurate operational information on information and communications technology 
(ICT) on a global basis. The potential benefits shown here should not be seen as 
immediate savings and should not be considered in the formulation of future 
budgets. Any reduction should only be contemplated after the new processes and 
structures have been deployed for at least one year and once they have stabilized, 
and following the subsequent analysis and confirmation of benefits. The figure 
below shows the project phases and the benefits gained from the enterprise ICT 
initiatives. 
 

  Figure  
Project phases and benefits gained from the enterprise ICT initiatives 
 

 
 

2. The achievement of the benefits presented herein is based on several important 
conditions, including the full funding of the implementation proposals, the 
continued involvement and support of all stakeholders and the continuation of a 
strong ICT governance structure within the Secretariat. 

3. Individual departments cannot be permitted to opt out of these enterprise 
initiatives. The benefits outlined in these proposals will be significantly weakened if 
exceptions are granted since economies of scale will be lost, standards will be 
undermined and levels of complexity will remain in the global ICT environment.  

4. The classification authority for ICT jobs needs to be controlled centrally by the 
Office of Human Resources Management in collaboration with the Office of 
Information and Communications Technology in order to prevent individual 
departments from establishing separate ICT job classification systems.  

5. Staff training and mentoring programmes need to be developed in 
collaboration with the Office of Human Resources Management to facilitate 
effective staff redeployments and migration to the new global staffing model. 

 

ImplementationPlanningand Design Stabilization
Full

Operation

Benefits 
Realization

1 year

Project 
Phases:



 A/66/94
 

61 11-41011 
 

Annex IV 
 

  Quantitative benefit analyses 
 
 

 I. Leverage knowledge through information and 
communications technology 
 
 

 
Estimate  

(millions of United States dollars) 

 Low end of range High end of range 

Information-sharing 9.2 11.2 

 Enhanced information-sharing across departments and 
locationsa 3.0 3.7 

 Staff performance improvementsb 4.2 5.1 

 Increased productivity due to reduced time needed to find 
informationc 1.6 1.9 

 Decreased publishing turnaround time in all languagesd .18 .22 

 Implemented and enforced workflows for content creation and 
publishinge .12 .14 

Virtual meetings 3.5 4.3 

 Enhanced information-sharing and virtual meetings saving 
travel time and shortening meetingsf 1.5 1.8 

 Enhanced information sharing and virtual meetings, resulting 
in a decrease in overseas travel expensesg .94 1.1 

 Improved decision-makingh .88 1.0 

 Better communication between offices away from 
Headquarters and Headquartersi .16 .19 

Content and technology optimization 4.7 5.7 

 Cost avoidance by reducing disparate legacy systemsj .90 1.1 

 Lower call centre costsk .18 .22 

 Consolidated official United Nations public websites around 
the world into a single sitel .32 .39 

 Consolidated servers and applicationsm .18 .22 

 Reduced need for external web developers and administratorsn .64 .78 

 Efficient and standardized environment for all web-based 
services. Easier implementation of branding, accessibility and 
usability standardso .08 .09 

 Faster creation of new websites and updating of existing ones. 
Faster integration of content management and collaboration 
information repositoriesp .48 .58 

 Reduced labour requirements for the maintenance of websites. 
Increased productivity because staff require less time to find 
information and toolsq 1.6 1.9 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 62 
 

 
Estimate  

(millions of United States dollars) 

 Low end of range High end of range 

Reduced printing 1.4 1.8 

 Greener United Nations through reduced printing and 
electronic document sharing and collaborationr .67 .82 

 Cost avoidance by reducing physical storage spaces .81 .99 

Content organization and access   

 Enhanced information sharing across departments and 
locationst 4.0 4.9 

 Total 23 28 
 
 
 

 II. Enhance ICT service delivery 
 
 

 
Estimate savings  

(millions of United States dollars)u 

Enhance ICT service delivery Low end of range High end of range 

Self-servicev 6.6 9.9 

 “Request for service” will streamline and automate processes 
for requesting ICT products and services 1.3 2.0 

 “Password reset” will provide an online portal for resetting 
network passwords 2.6 4.0 

 “Knowledge base” will be used to collect information on 
common problems and provide an online portal to search for 
solutions 2.6 4.0 

ICT asset managementw 10.3 15.4 

 “Auto-discovery” will enable the collection of ICT hardware 
and software information per workstation user  7.6 11.4 

 “Performance management” will use business intelligence 
tools to capture both operational and strategic metrics  2.7 4.0 

Service desk automationx 1.4 2.0 

 “Ticketing and agent scheduling” will make it possible to use 
service desk agents more efficiently and to enter and track 
tickets 0.7 1.0 

 “Business intelligence” will track service desk and 
workstation ticket performance (i.e., first call resolution, time 
to resolve, etc.) 0.7 1.0 

Workstation standardizationy 7.4 11.2 

 “Base configuration” (operating system, e-mail, browser, 
antivirus software, etc.) will provide a common core software 
image for all workstations so that systems can be deployed 
more quickly and images can be maintained more easily  3.7 5.6 

 “Policy-based administration” will provide role-based rules to 
prevent unauthorized software or system access, which will 
reduce the number of problems at workstations  3.7 5.6 



 A/66/94
 

63 11-41011 
 

 
Estimate savings  

(millions of United States dollars)u 

Enhance ICT service delivery Low end of range High end of range 

Workstation automationz 7.5 11.3 

 “Remote control” will provide technical support access to 
workstations, allowing for the more efficient use of technical 
resources 5.0 7.5 

 “Software distribution” will provide a standardized method for 
distributing software updates across all workstations 2.5 3.8 

Local service desk migrationaa 6.5 9.8 

 “Knowledge capture” activities will leverage the knowledge 
base capabilities to capture common local ICT problems, 
making it easier to resolve problems for regional ICT service 
desks 4.0 6.0 

 “Local service desk reduction” will provide local ICT 
resources with a greater ability to handle substantive tasks 
while transferring common ICT service desk functions to the 
regional desks 2.5 3.8 

 Grand total 39.7 59.6 
 
 
 

 III. Create a resilient ICT infrastructure 
 
 

 
Estimated savings  

(millions of United States dollars)bb 

Create a resilient ICT infrastructure Low end of range  High end of range 

E-mail archivescc 1.3 2.0 

 “Enterprise management of e-mail archives” will provide one 
location (enterprise data centre) for support personnel to 
manage all e-mail back-up activities  0.4 0.6 

 “Equipment consolidation” will be realized by removing the 
requirement for e-mail back-up at all duty stations (excluding 
missions) 0.9 1.4 

Storage optimizationdd 1.3 2.0 

 “Enterprise management” of storage for enterprise 
applications will enhance the efficient management and 
optimization of data. It will also ensure that critical data is 
stored efficiently in one location, for a quicker restoration of 
systems 0.2 0.3 

 Equipment consolidation will be realized by removing the 
requirement for enterprise application storage at all duty 
stations (excluding missions) 1.2 1.7 

Configuration of enterprise data centresee 4.9 7.4 

 “Enterprise data centre server management” will ensure that 
enterprise systems will have a resilient architecture and the 
support of a reduced number of support staff compared with 
previous methods of deployment 2.8 4.2 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 64 
 

 
Estimated savings  

(millions of United States dollars)bb 

Create a resilient ICT infrastructure Low end of range  High end of range 

 “Enterprise data centre server consolidation and resilience” 
will be accomplished by hosting the application in one 
location characterized by world-class operations and 
resilience, thereby reducing the cost of implementing 
enterprise systems 1.1 1.7 

 “Enterprise data centre storage management” will ensure that 
enterprise systems will have an optimized storage architecture 
and the support of a reduced number of support staff compared 
with previous methods of deployment 0.6 0.8 

 “Enterprise data centre storage consolidation and resilience” 
will be accomplished by harmonizing storage in one location 
with full resilience for critical data, thereby reducing the cost 
of implementing enterprise systems 0.5 0.7 

Enterprise server and storage toolsff 5.0 7.4 

 “Server monitoring and management tools for enterprise data 
centres and local data centres” will provide common toolsets 
across both enterprise and local data centres to streamline 
server operations and facilitate the harmonization of 
equipment across all duty stations 2.6 4.0 

 “Server monitoring and management tools for enterprise data 
centres and local data centres” will provide common toolsets 
across both enterprise and local data centres to streamline 
server operations and provide extended coverage for all duty 
stations 1.0 1.6 

 “Storage monitoring and management tools for enterprise data 
centres and local data centres” will provide common toolsets 
across both enterprise and local data centres to streamline 
storage operations and facilitate the harmonization of 
equipment across all duty stations 0.8 1.2 

 “Storage monitoring and management tools for enterprise data 
centres and local data centres” will provide common toolsets 
across both enterprise and local data centres to streamline 
storage operations and provide extended coverage for all duty 
stations 0.5 0.7 

Local server room migrationgg 5.3 8.0 

 “Local server room migration for enterprise data centres and 
local data centres” will combine existing local server rooms to 
increase security and resilience while reducing the need for 
equipment 4.0 6.0 

 “Local server room migration for enterprise data centres and 
local data centres” will combine existing local server rooms to 
reduce support requirements locally 0.7 1.0 

 “Local storage migration for enterprise data centres and local 
data centres” will combine existing local storage to increase 
security and resilience while reducing the need for equipment  0.5 0.7 



 A/66/94
 

65 11-41011 
 

 
Estimated savings  

(millions of United States dollars)bb 

Create a resilient ICT infrastructure Low end of range  High end of range 

 “Local storage migration for enterprise data centres and local 
data centres” will combine existing local storage to reduce 
support requirements locally 0.2 0.3 

 Grand total 17.9 26.9 
 

 a Save 10 minutes per week for 8,000 people with 65 per cent of that time being used 
productively. 

 b Staff performance improvements include enhanced effectiveness and efficiency due to better 
and faster decision-making, staff time savings, increased responsiveness to external events, 
improved management of organizational records, increased transparency and accountability, 
increased information security, protection of confidential information, better support to 
business continuity, improved capture of legacy content, among other factors. The 
assumption is that each one of the “active” documents in the system will contribute to the 
achievement of one or more of the above-mentioned benefits. The formula to calculate this 
benefit assumes 55,000 documents and the average cost of a staff member at the P-3 level. 
One hour per year is assumed to be the benefit that each document brings per year. The total 
benefit is calculated in terms of the number of documents per average staff cost per hour 
saved by each document. 

 c A study by the International Data Corporation showed that “an enterprise with 1,000 
knowledge workers wastes $48,000 per week ($2.5 million per year)”. It is estimated that, 
on average, 10 P-3 posts will be saved per 1,000 users. 

 d Today the content is not fully available in all languages. The new platform will save 
approximately one person per year by improving the productivity of the translators. 

 e Workflows will further increase staff productivity. Savings are estimated at 3/4 person per 
year. 

 f Save 10 minutes a week for 4,000 people with 65 per cent of that time being used 
productively. 

 g Eliminate the need for 10 trips per year at $7,000 per trip.  
 h Reduced time for meetings. Estimate is calculated on the assumption that 1/2 hour is saved 

per week by not having to hold meetings to decide on actions for 1,000 users. Half of the 
time may be used productively (1/2 hour (time saved) * 1,000 (users) * 52 (weeks) * $63 =). 

 i By being able to search for information across the enterprise in different time zones and not 
having to depend on the human knowledge worker to generate and provide information, the 
estimate is that the time of at least one person per year will be saved. 

 j The formula used to calculate this benefit assumes an average yearly cost of $50,000 to 
run/support legacy systems (including storage). The forecasted reduction in legacy systems 
is by 20 systems (total per year = number of systems * yearly cost to run the run/support the 
system). 

 k Fewer staff will be able do the same work. The estimate is that two fewer help desk 
technicians will be needed. 

 l Less time and fewer staff needed to keep the public websites up to date. Savings amount to 
approximately two fewer persons per year. 

 m New infrastructure will be appropriately configured and applications will be running on new, 
more efficient hardware. Consolidated architecture will be scalable and portable. 

 n A central development and design group will work on one technology. Savings are estimated 
at four developers per year. 

 o Templates will make it faster and easier to meet web-formatting requirements. Savings are 
estimated at approximately 2.5 persons per year. 

 p The savings are reflected in the number of persons required each year to plan, design and 
develop new websites. Savings are estimated at three persons per year. 



A/66/94  
 

11-41011 66 
 

 q The savings are reflected in the number of persons per year required to maintain, revamp 
and improve websites that already exist on the new platform. Savings are estimated at two 
persons per year. By using content management systems to create and update websites, users 
will be able to create and find relevant information more efficiently. This will result in 
savings estimated by the work of at least eight persons per year in productivity across the 
Secretariat. 

 r Owing to better collaboration and electronic sharing of information there will be less need 
for printing. 

 s The formula to calculate this benefit assumes an average yearly cost of $75 per square feet. 
According to the forecast there will be a reduction in physical storage space of 10,000 
square feet owing to better electronic document and records management. The total per  
year = square footage reduced * average cost per square foot. 

 t Increased efficiency and effectiveness owing to better organization of information. Save 
15 minutes per week (46 weeks per year) for 7,000 people with 65 per cent of the time being 
used productively. 

 u These estimates are for savings after full implementation of the initiatives and do not reflect 
the savings for each year leading to full implementation. 

 v The assumption is that efficiencies will be gained in ICT service desk labour through a 20 to 
30 per cent reduction in the volume of calls. 

 w The assumption is that there will be an efficiency gain of 8 to 12 per cent for support staff 
and savings of 8 to 12 per cent under equipment owing to licence harvesting and less 
shrinkage (inventory loss). 

 x The assumption is that there will be an increase in the efficiency of service desk staff of 4 to 
6 per cent owing to the effective distribution of workload. 

 y The assumption is that an improvement of 8 to 12 per cent in service delivery will be made 
owing to easier fixes and reductions in the volume of calls. 

 z The assumption is that automation tools will increase the efficiency of workstation staff by 
12 to 18 per cent. 

 aa The assumption is that there will be a reduction in local and regional service desk labour of 
12 to 18 per cent owing to an increased scale and use of the knowledge base, and a reduction 
in local service desk equipment of 40 to 60 per cent. 

 bb These estimates are for savings after full implementation of the initiatives and do not reflect 
the savings for each year leading to the completion. 

 cc The assumption is that there will be a reduction in e-mail equipment of 8 to 12 per cent and 
in associated labour of 12 to 18 per cent, excluding missions. 

 dd The assumption is that there will be a reduction in storage-related equipment of 20 to 30 per 
cent and in storage-related labour of 4 to 6 per cent, excluding missions. 

 ee Increases infrastructure staff efficiency by between 18 and 22 per cent and results in 
equipment savings of between 8 and 12 per cent, excluding missions. 

 ff Increases efficiency of all infrastructure staff by between 3 and 5 per cent and results in 
equipment savings of between 1.5 and 2.5 per cent, including missions. 

 gg Significant reductions occur primarily in local server room equipment (28-42 per cent), local 
storage equipment (8-12 per cent) and local infrastructure labour (4-6 per cent) (facilities 
not included). 

 

 


